                             Product Code: 3012   UIN: IR

CHAPTER 1  - STANDARD FORM FOR COMPULSORY
PERSONAL ACCIDENT (OWNER-DRIVER) UNDER MOTOR
INSURANCE POLICY
The Company undertakes to pay compensation as per the
following scale for bodily injury/ death sustained by the owner-
driver of the vehicle, in direct connection with the vehicle or
whilst driving or mounting into/dismounting from the vehicle or
whilst traveling in it as a co-driver, caused by violent accidental
external and visible means which independent of any other
cause shall within six calendar months of such injury result in:

 Nature of injury           Sum         Scale of
                           Insured ( `)  compensation
  I. Death                  XX        100%
  II. Loss of two limbs or        XX        100%
 sight of both eyes or one
 limb and sight of one eye
  III. Loss of one limb or         XX        50%
 sight of one eye
 IV. Permanent total          XX        100%
 disablement from injuries
 other than those named
 above, if such Injury shall
 as a direct consequence
 thereof, permanently, and
 totally, disable the Insured
 Person from engaging
 in any employment
 or occupation of any
 description whatsoever
Provided always that
I.  Compensation shall be payable under only one of the items
     (i) to (iv) above in respect of the owner-driver, arising out of
   any one occurrence and the total liability of the insurer shall
   not in the aggregate exceed the sum insured mentioned in
   the policy schedule during any one period of insurance.
II. No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or
   bodily injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising
   or resulting from or traceable to (1) intentional self injury,
   suicide or attempted suicide physical defect or infirmity
   or (2) an accident happening whilst such person is under
   the influence of intoxicating liquor, drugs or any other
   substance abuse.
III. Such compensation shall be payable directly to the insured or
   to his/her legal representatives/Nominee whose receipt shall
   be the full discharge in respect of the injury to the insured.
IV. This cover is subject to
      a. The owner-driver  is the registered owner of the
         vehicle whilst driving which, including mounting into/
        dismounting from or traveling in, the owner-driver
        sustained bodily injury/ death;
      b. The owner-driver is the insured named under this
         policy and the policy being valid on the date of loss
RDAN115RP0034V01201819

          c.  The owner-driver holds an effective driving license, in
          accordance with the provisions of Rule 3 of the Central
          Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, at the time of the accident.

  Chapter 2- Exception & Conditions
   1.  EXCLUSIONS:
     I. No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or
      bodily injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising
      or resulting from or traceable to (1) intentional self-injury,
      suicide or attempted suicide, physical defect or infirmity
      or (2) an accident happening whilst such person is under
     the influence of intoxicating liquor, drugs or any other
     substance abuse.
     II. When the vehicle is used in any kind of rallies as defined in
     Indian Motor Tariff.
     III. Any bodily injury/ death sustained by the owner-driver of
     the vehicle outside the Indian Territory;
   IV. Any claim arising out of any contractual liability
   V. Any bodily injury/ death sustained by the owner-driver of
     the vehicle whilst the vehicle is driven or while mounting
      into/ dismounting from or traveling in the said vehicle,
     herein is
      a. Being used otherwise than in accordance with the
         Limitations as to Use. or
       b. Being driven by or is for the purpose of being driven by
        him/her in the charge of any person other than a Driver
       as stated in the Driver’s Clause.
       c. Any liability of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly
       caused by or contributed to by or arising from ionising
         radiations  or  contamination by  radioactivity  from
       any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste from the
       combustion of nuclear fuel. For the purpose of this
        exception combustion shall include any self-sustaining
        process of nuclear fission.
   VI. Any bodily injury/ death sustained by the owner-driver of
       the vehicle directly or indirectly caused by or contributed
       to by or arising from nuclear weapons material.
    VII. Any bodily injury/ death sustained by the owner-driver of
       the vehicle directly or indirectly or proximately or remotely
      occasioned by, contributed to by or traceable to or arising
       out of or in connection with war, invasion, the act of foreign
       enemies, hostilities or warlike operations (whether before or
        after declaration of war) civil war, mutiny rebellion, military
       or usurped power or by any direct or indirect consequence
       of any of the said occurrences and in the event of any claim
      hereunder the insured shall prove that the accidental loss
     damage and/or liability arose independently of and was in
      no way connected with or occasioned by or contributed
       to by or traceable to any of the said occurrences or any
      consequences thereof and in default of such proof, the
     Company shall not be liable to make any payment in
       respect of such a claim.
This Policy and the Schedule shall be read together and any
word or expression to which a specific meaning has been
attached in any part of this Policy or of the Schedule shall bear
the same meaning wherever it may appear.
I.   The policyholder can cancel the policy at any time during
    the term, by informing the insurer. In case the Policyholder
    cancels the policy, he/ she is not required to give reasons
     for cancellation. In such case of cancelation, the insurer
     will refund proportional premium for unexpired policy
     period, if the term of the policy is upto one year and there
      is no claim(s) made during the policy period.
     In case the term of the policy is more than 12 months,
    the insurer will refund premium for the unexpired policy
     period, in respect of policy with the term more than one
    year and the risk coverage for such policy years has not
    commenced.
    The insurer can cancel the policy only on the grounds of
    established fraud, by giving minimum notice of 7 days to
    the retail policyholder.
II.  The Policy shall be null and void and no benefit shall be
    payable in the event of untrue or incorrect statements,
    misrepresentation, mis-description or on non-disclosure
     in any material particular in the proposal form, personal
    statement, declaration and connected documents, or any
    material information having been withheld, or a claim
    being fraudulent or any fraudulent means or devices
    being used by the Insured Person or any one acting on his
    behalf to obtain any benefit under this Policy.
III.  The due observance and fulfillment of the terms, conditions
    and endorsements of this Policy in so far as they relate
     to anything to be done or complied with by the insured
    and the truth of the statements and answers in the said
    proposal shall be conditions precedent to any liability of
    the Company to make any payment under this Policy.
 IV. Any knowledge or information of any circumstances
     or condition in connection with the Insured Person in
    possession of any official of the Company shall not be
    the notice to or be held to bind or prejudicially affect the
   Company notwithstanding subsequent acceptance of
    any premium.
V.    It has been agreed between the parties that any dispute
    concerning the interpretation of the terms, conditions,
     limitations  and/or  exclusions  contained  herein   is
    understood and agreed to be adjudicated or interpreted
     in accordance with Indian Laws and only competent
    Indian courts shall have the exclusive jurisdiction to try
      all or any matters arising hereunder. The matter shall be
    determined or adjudicated in accordance with the law
    and practice of such Court.
VI.  Any  notice,  direction or  instruction given under  this
     Policy shall be in writing and delivered by hand, post, or
     facsimile to:
     In case of the Insured Person, at the address specified in
    Part 1 of the Schedule.
     after posting or immediately upon receipt in the case of
    hand delivery, facsimile or e-mail.
VIII. The terms and  conditions  contained  herein and  in
    Part I of the Schedule to this Policy shall be deemed to
    form part of the Policy and shall be read as if they are
     specifically incorporated herein; however in case of any
    inconsistency of any term and condition with the scope
     of cover contained in Part I of the Schedule to this Policy,
    then the term(s) and condition(s) contained herein shall
    be read mutatis mutandis with the scope of cover/terms
    and conditions contained in Part I of the Schedule to this
     Policy and shall be deemed to be modified accordingly or
    superseded in case of inconsistency being irreconcilable.

CHAPTER 3 - BASIS OF ASSESSMENT OF CLAIM:
A. The procedure for lodging the claim shall be as under:
Upon the happening of any event giving rise or likely to give
rise to a claim under this Policy:
i)  Barring exceptional circumstances where a reasonable
   cause is shown and the Company is satisfied with such
   reasons, the Company should be immediately notified in
   writing of such event.
ii) The Insured Person or any such person acting on behalf of
   the Insured Person, as the case may be, shall deliver to the
  Company, within 30 days of the date on which the event
   shall have come to his/her knowledge, a detailed statement
    in writing as per the claim form, and any other material
   particular, relevant to the making of such claim.
iii) The Insured Person or any such person acting on behalf
   of the Insured Person, as the case may be, shall tender to
   the Company all reasonable information, assistance and
   proofs in connection with any claim hereunder.
B.  Claim Documents:
The Insured Person or any such person acting on behalf of
the Insured Person, as the case may be, shall be required to
furnish the following for or in support of a claim:
i)  In case of Death
    a) PA Claim form duly filled & signed by the nominee
    b)  Policy Copy
    c) Death certificate - Notarized/ Attested by a gazetted
        officer
    d)  F.I.R - Notarized/ Attested by a gazetted officer Police
        Final charge sheet/ Court Final order - Notarized/
       attested by a Gazetted  Officer  -   if  applicable  -
       notarized/ Attested by a gazetted officer
    e)  Spot and/or Inquest Panchnama - Notarized/ Attested
      by a gazetted officer
     f)  Post Mortem Report  -  Notarized/  Attested by a
       gazetted officer
   •  Viscera Analysis Report/ Chemical analysis report/
       Forensic Science Lab report
   •    If applicable - notarized/ Attested by gazetted officer]
       colour photos of claimant
      i)  Cancel Cheque with NEFT Mandate form - duly filled in
      by the claimant and bank
      j)  Any other document as required by the Company or
      Company’s TPA to investigate the Claim or Company’s
       obligation to make payment for it
ii)  In case of Permanent Total Disablement
    a) PA Claim form duly filled & signed by Insured/ Claimant
    b)  Policy Copy
    c) MLC OR F.I.R.OR PANCHNAMA- Notarised/ Attested
      by a gazetted officer
    d)  Disability  Certificate  issued  by  Authorised   civil
       surgeon- Original/Notarised/ Attested by a gazetted
        officer
        •  Treatment papers, X-rays films / laboratory test
            reports and other diagnostic reports to support
            the claim and percentage of disability
    e)  Medical report
     f)  Colour Photograph of the injured reflecting disability
    g)  If claim amount> 1lakh, AML Documents - Pan Card
       Copy, Residence Proof, 2 Passport size colour photos
       of claimant
    h) Other Document as per Case  details  - Copy  of
       Treatment  papers;   if  hospitalized, Website  Links/
      Newspaper cuttings, Other references
      i)  Cancel Cheque with NEFT Mandate form - duly filled in
      by the claimant
      j)  Any other document as required by the Company
       or Company’s TPA to investigate the Claim or Our
       obligation to make payment for
   all documents in place as per policy terms –Claim will be
  paid to Insured/Nominee account details.

CHAPTER 5 - Grievance Clause
   For resolution of any query or grievance, Insured may
   contact the respective branch office of the Company or
  may call toll free no.1800-2666 or may approach us at
   the sub section “Grievance Redressal” on our website
   www.icicilombard.com   (Customer   Support   section).
   However, if the resolution provided by us is not satisfactory
   you may approach Insurance Regulatory and Development
   Authority of India (IRDAI) through the Bima Bharosa Portal
    -  https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/  or  IRDAI  Grievance
    Call Centre(IGCC) at their toll free no. 1800 4254 732  /
   155255. You may also approach Insurance Ombudsman,
   subject  to  vested  jurisdiction,  for  the  redressal  of
   grievance. Details of Insurance Ombudsman offices are
   available  at IRDAI  website:  https://irdai.gov.in,  or on
   the Company’s website at www.icicilombard.com or on
   https://www.cioins.co.in/Ombudsman
