CHAPTER  1 -STANDARD FORM FOR COMMERCIAL
VEHICLE LIABILITY ONLY POLICY
(Applicable  to  all  classes  of  vehicles  with  suitable
amendments in ‘Limitations as to Use’)
Whereas the insured by a proposal and declaration dated as
stated in the Schedule which shall be basis of this contract
and is deemed to be incorporated herein has applied to the
Company for the insurance hereinafter contained and has
paid the premium as consideration for such insurance in
respect of events occurring during the period of insurance.
NOW THIS POLICY WITNESSETH:
That  subject  to  the  Terms,  Exceptions and  Conditions
contained herein or endorsed or expressed hereon:
SECTION II - LIABILITY TO THIRD PARTIES
1.     I. Subject to the Limit of liability as laid down in the
    schedule hereto, the Company will indemnify the insured
     in the event of accident caused by or arising out of the
    use of the Motor Vehicle anywhere in India against all
   sums including claimant’s costs and expenses which the
    insured shall become legally liable to pay in respect of
     a.  Death of or bodily injury to any person so far as it
           is necessary to meet the requirements of the Motor
        Vehicles Act.
     b.  Damage to property other than property belonging to
        the insured or held in trust or in the custody or control
         of the insured up to the limit specified in the schedule.
2.  The Company  will also pay  all costs and expenses
    incurred with its written consent.
3.   In terms of and subject to the limitations of the indemnity
    which is granted by this policy to the insured, the Company
     will indemnify any driver who is driving the Motor Vehicle
   on the insured’s order or with insured’s permission provided
    that such driver shall as though he/she were the insured
    observe fulfill and be subject to the terms exceptions and
    conditions of this policy in so far as they apply.
4.   In the event of the death of any person entitled to indemnity
    under this policy the Company will in respect of the liability
    incurred by such  person  indemnify  his/her  personal
    representative in terms of and subject to the limitations
    of this Policy provided that such personal representative
     shall as though such representative was the insured
    observe fulfill and be subject to the terms exceptions and
    conditions of this Policy in so far as they apply.
5.  The Company may at its own option
     a.  Arrange for representation at any Inquest or Fatal
         Inquiry in respect of any death which may be the
        subject of indemnity under this Policy and
     b.  Undertake the defense of proceedings in any Court of
      Law in respect of any act or alleged offence causing
         or relating to any event which may be the subject of
        indemnity under this Policy.
6. AVOIDANCE OF CERTAIN TERMS AND RIGHT OF
   RECOVERY
Nothing in this Policy or any endorsement hereon shall affect
the right of any person indemnified by this Policy or any
other person to recover an amount under or by virtue of the
provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act. But the insured shall
repay to the Company all sums paid by the Company which
the Company would not have been liable to pay but for the
said provisions.

7.  APPLICATION OF LIMITS OF INDEMNITY
In the event of any accident involving indemnity to more than
one person any limitation by the terms of this Policy and/or
of any Endorsement thereon of the amount of any indemnity
shall apply to the aggregate amount of indemnity to  all
persons indemnified and such indemnity shall apply in priority
to the insured.

8.  POLICY PERIOD
Means the period commencing from policy start date and hour
and terminating on the policy and date and hour as specified
in part I of schedule of the policy.
SECTION III - PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER FOR OWNER-
DRIVER
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this Policy,
The Company undertakes to pay compensation as per the
following scale for bodily injury/death sustained by the owner-
driver of the vehicle in direct connection with the vehicle insured
or whilst mounting into/dismounting from or traveling in the
insured vehicle as a co-driver, caused by violent, accidental,
external and visible means which independently of any other
cause shall within six calendar months of such injury result in

 Nature of injury                           Scale of
                                    compensation
  (i) Death                          100%

  (ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two        100%
 eyes or one limb and sight of one eye.

  (iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye      50%
 (iv) Permanent total disablement from      100%
 injuries other than named above.

Provided always that
I.   The compensation shall be payable under only one of
    the items (i) to (iv) above in respect of the owner-driver
     arising out of any one occurrence and the total liability of
    the insurer shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum of `
   15 Lakhs during any one period of insurance.
II.  No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or
    bodily injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising
    or resulting from or traceable to
(a)  intentional self injury suicide or attempted suicide physical
    defect or infirmity or (b) an accident happening whilst
    such person is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
    drugs.
This cover is subject to
     a.  The owner-driver is the registered owner of the vehicle
         insured herein;
      b.  The owner-driver is the insured named in this policy.
      c.  The owner-driver holds an effective driving license,
           in accordance with the provisions of Rule 3 of the
         Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, at the time of the
         accident.
III.  The personal accident cover for owner driver is mandatory
     for a period of one year and may be extended, in line with
    the duration of policy, at the discretion of the customer

CHAPTER 2 - EXCEPTION AND CONDITION
1.  GENERAL EXCEPTIONS
1.     I. The Company shall not be liable in respect of any claim
     arising whilst the vehicle insured herein
     a.  Being used otherwise than in accordance with the
         ‘Limitations as to Use’ or
     b.  Being driven by or is for the purpose of being driven
       by him/her in the charge of any person other than a
        Driver as stated in the Driver’s Clause.
II.  The Company shall not be liable in respect of any claim
     arising out of any contractual liability.
III.  Except so far as is necessary to meet the requirements of
    the Motor Vehicles Act, the Company shall not be liable
     in respect of death arising out of and in the course of
    employment of a person in the employment of the insured
     or in the employment of any person who is indemnified
    under this policy or bodily injury sustained by such person
     arising out of and in the course of such employment.
IV.  Except so far as is necessary to meet the requirements of
    the Motor Vehicles Act, the Company shall not be liable in
     respect of death or bodily injury to any person (other than a
    passenger carried by reason of or in pursuance of a contract
     of employment) being carried in or upon or entering or
    mounting or alighting from the Motor Vehicle at the time of
    the occurrence of the event out of which any claim arises.
V.  The Company shall not be liable in respect of any liability
     directly or indirectly or proximately or remotely occasioned
    by contributed by or traceable to or arising out of or in
    connection with War, Invasion, the Act of foreign enemies,
     hostilities or warlike operations (whether before or after
    declaration of war), Civil War, Mutiny, Rebellion Military or
    usurped power or by any direct or indirect consequences
     of any of the said occurrences and in the event of any claim
    hereunder, the Insured shall prove that the accident, loss,
   damage and/or liability, arose independently of and was
     in no way connected with or occasioned by or contributed
     to by or traceable to any of the said occurrences or any
    consequences thereof and in default of such proof, the
   Company shall not be liable to make any payment in
    respect of such a claim.
VI.  The Company shall not be liable in respect of any liability
     directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by or
     arising from nuclear weapons material.
2. CONDITIONS
This Policy and the Schedule shall be read together and any
word or expression to which a specific meaning has been
attached in any part of this policy or of the Schedule shall bear
the same meaning wherever it may appear.
I.   Notice  shall be  given  in  writing  to  the Company
    immediately upon the occurrence of any accident and in
    the event of any claim. Every letter claim writ summons
    and/or process  shall be forwarded to the Company
    immediately on receipt by the insured. Notice shall also be
    given in writing to the Company immediately the insured
     shall have knowledge of any impending Prosecution
    Inquest or Fatal Inquiry in respect of any accident which
   may give rise to a claim under this Policy.
    Wherever details pertaining to any incident which results
     in a claim, are conveyed by the insured to the insurer after
    reasonable period, insured shall provide the reasons of
    such delay to the insurer and insurer may on analysis
     of reasons provided by insured, condone the delay in
     intimation of claim or delay in providing the required
    information/documents to the insurer.
II.  No admission, offer, promise, payment, or indemnity shall
    be made or given by or on behalf of the insured without the
    written consent of the Company which shall be entitled
       if it so desires to take over and conduct in the name of
    the insured the defence or settlement of any claim or to
    prosecute in the name of the insured for its own benefit
    any claim for indemnity or otherwise and shall have full
     discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or in the
    settlement of any claim and the insured shall give all such
    information and assistance as the Company may require.
       If the Company shall make any payment in settlement
     of any claim and such payment includes any amount
    not covered by this Policy the insured shall repay to the
   Company the amount not so covered.
III.  The insured shall take all reasonable steps to maintain
    the insured vehicle in efficient condition and the company
     shall have at all times free and full access to examine
    the insured vehicle or any part thereof or any driver or
    employee of the insured.
IV. The policyholder can cancel the policy at any time during
    the term, by informing the insurer. In case the Policyholder
    cancels the policy, he/ she is not required to give reasons
     for cancellation. In such case of cancelation, the insurer
     will refund proportional premium for unexpired policy
    period, if the term of the policy is upto one year and there
     is no claim(s) made during the policy period.
     In case the term of the policy is more than 12 months, the
     insurer will refund premium for the unexpired policy period,
     in respect of policy with the term more than one year and
    the risk coverage for such policy years has not commenced.
    The insurer can cancel the policy only on the grounds of
    established fraud, by giving minimum notice of 7 days to
    the retail policyholder.
    Under no circumstances can the insurer cancel statutory
    Motor  Third  Party  Liability  insurance  or any  other
    compulsory insurance mandated by law except in case of
    double insurance or total loss/Cash loss.
Cancellation due to Double insurance
•    In the event of cancellation of policy due to double
    insurance, the company will refund the Own damage and
      liability section premium in full for the unexpired years
    (years for which the Risk has not yet incepted). For the
    year where policy is in-force (risk has incepted), premium
     will be refunded as follows:

                                          Different Risk start date (RSD)
                  Same Risk     SR                                    First policy          Later            Scenarios   start date      No.                              cancelled            policy                      (RSD)                                      (on request of       Cancelled
                                         Insured)

      1    Dual          Full Refund     1. Full refund - if       Full
              policy with                 request is
              similar                      received before
            cover                RSD
             issued                          2. Proportional
           by the                   Refund - If
          company                   request is received
                                              after RSD.

      2    Dual          Full            Proportional         Proportional
              policy with  Refund - If    Premium Refund    Premium
              different     cancellation                     Refund
              Insurers     request is
                          received
                          within
                     30 days
                       from RSD.
                          Proportional
                         refund - if
                         request is
                          received
                             after 30 days
                       from RSD.

 V.   If at the time of occurrence of an event that gives rise to
    any claim under this policy there is in existence any other
    insurance covering the same liability, the Company shall
    not be liable to pay or contribute more than its ratable
    proportion of any compensation, cost or expense.
VI.  The due observance and fulfillment of the terms, conditions
    and endorsement of this Policy in so far as they relate
     to anything to be done or complied with by the insured
    and the truth of the statements and answers in the said
    proposal shall be conditions precedent to any liability of
    the Company to make any payment under this Policy..
VII.  In the event of the death of the sole insured, this policy will
    not immediately lapse but will remain valid for a period
     of three months from the date of the death of insured or
     until the expiry of this policy (whichever is earlier). During
    the said period, legal heir(s) of the insured to whom the
    custody and use of the Motor Vehicle passes may apply
     to have this Policy transferred to the name(s) of the heir(s)
     or obtain a new insurance policy for the Motor Vehicle.
   Where such legal heir(s) desire(s) to apply for transfer of
     this policy or obtain a new policy for the vehicle such heir(s)
    should make an application to the Company accordingly
    within the aforesaid period. All such applications should
    be accompanied by:-
      a.  Death Certificate in respect of the insured
      b.   Proof of title to the vehicle
       c.   Original Policy.
CHAPTER 3 - INDIA MOTOR TARIFF – ENDORSEMENTS
1.   IMT. 1. Extension of Geographical Area
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
     of  `............................... it is hereby understood and agreed
    that notwithstanding anything contained in this Policy
     to the contrary the Geographical Area in this Policy shall
    from the  ..../..../........ to the  ..../..../........ (both days inclusive)
    be deemed to include*
       It is further specifically understood and agreed that such
    geographical extension excludes cover for damage to the
     vehicle insured/injury to its occupants/third party liability
     in respect of the vehicle insured during sea voyage/air
    passage for the purpose of ferrying the vehicle insured to
    the extended geographical area.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this Policy.
    NOTE: Insert Nepal/Sri Lanka/Maldives/Bhutan/Pakistan/
    Bangladesh as the case may be.

2.   IMT. 2. AGREED VALUE CLAUSE (APPLICABLE ONLY TO
   VINTAGE CARS)
       It is hereby declared and agreed that in case of TOTAL
    LOSS/CONSTRUCTIVE TOTAL LOSS/Cash Loss of the
    Vintage Car insured hereunder due to a peril insured
     against,  the amount payable  will be  the  Insured’s
    Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle as mentioned in the
     Policy without deduction of any depreciation.
       It is further declared and agreed that in case of partial
     loss to the vehicle, depreciation on parts replaced will be
    as stated in Section I of the Policy.
     Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this Policy.

3.   IMT. 3. TRANSFER OF INTEREST
       It  is hereby understood and agreed  that as from
          ..../..../........ the interest in the policy is transferred to and
    vested in ......... of carrying on or engaged in the business
     or profession of  ......... who shall be deemed to be the
     insured and whose proposal and  declaration dated
          ....../........./............. shall be deemed to be incorporated in
    and to be the basis of this contract.
    Provided always that for the purpose of the No Claim
    Bonus, no period during which the interest in this policy
    has been vested in any previous Insured shall accrue to
     the benefit of .....
     Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this policy.

4.   IMT. 4. CHANGE OF VEHICLE
       It is hereby understood and agreed that as from ..../..../........
    the vehicle bearing Registration Number is deemed to be
    deleted from the Schedule of the Policy and the vehicle
    with details specified hereunder is deemed to be included
     therein-
     In consequence of this change, an extra/refund premium
     of `........is charged/ allowed to the insured.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this Policy.
    Regd Engine/ Make Type of C.C Year of      Seating  IDV
    No   Chassis      body                                  Manufacture Capacity        No        No
                                                   Including
                                                   Driver





5.   IMT. 5. HIRE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
       It is hereby understood and agreed that..................(herein
     after referred to as the Owners) are the Owners of the
     vehicle insured and that the vehicle insured is subject of
    an Hire Purchase Agreement made between the Owners
    on the one part and the insured on the other part and
       it is further understood and agreed that the Owners are
     interested in any monies which but for this Endorsement
    would be payable to the insured under this policy in
    respect of such loss or damage to the vehicle insured as
    cannot be made good by repair and/or replacement of
    parts and such monies shall be paid to the Owners as
    long as they are the Owners of the vehicle insured and
     their receipt shall be a full and final discharge to the
     insurer in respect of such loss or damage.
       It is further declared and agreed that for the purpose of
    the Personal Accident Cover for the owner-driver granted
    under this policy, the insured named in the policy will
    continue to be deemed as the owner-driver subject to
    compliance of provisions of the policy relating to this cover.
    Save as by this Endorsement expressly agreed nothing
     herein shall modify or affect the rights and liabilities of the
    insured or the insurer respectively under or in connection
    with this Policy.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this policy.
6.   IMT. 6. LEASE AGREEMENT
       It  is  hereby  understood  and  agreed  that    ..............
     (hereinafter referred to as the Lessors) are the Owners
     of the vehicle insured and that the vehicle insured is the
    subject of a Lease Agreement made between the Lessor
    on the one part and the insured on the other part and
       it is further understood and agreed that the Lessors are
     interested in any monies which but for this Endorsement
    would be payable to the insured under this policy in
    respect of such loss or damage to the vehicle insured as
    cannot be made good by repair and/or replacement of
    parts and such monies shall be paid to the Lessors as long
    as they are the Owners of the vehicle insured and their
     receipt shall be a full and final discharge to the insurer
     in respect of such loss or damage. It is also understood
    and agreed that notwithstanding any provision in the
    Leasing Agreement to the contrary, this policy is issued to
    the insured namely .............. as the principal party and not
    as agent or trustee and nothing herein contained shall be
    construed as constituting the insured an agent or trustee
     for the Lessors or as an assignment (whether legal or
     equitable) by the insured to the Lessors, of his rights
     benefits and claims under this policy and further nothing
    herein shall be construed as creating or vesting any right
     in the Owner/Lessor to sue the insurer in any capacity
    whatsoever for any alleged breach of  its obligations
    hereunder. It is further declared and agreed that for the
    purpose of the Personal Accident Cover for the owner-
     driver granted under this policy, the insured named in the
     policy will continue to be deemed as the owner- driver
    subject to compliance of provisions of the policy relating
     to this cover.
    Save as by this Endorsement expressly agreed nothing
    herein shall modify or affect the rights and liabilities of the
    insured or the insurer respectively under or in connection
    with this Policy. Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions
    conditions and limitations of this policy.
7.   IMT. 7. Vehicles subject to Hypothecation Agreement
       It is hereby declared and agreed that the vehicle insured is
    pledged to/hypothecated with ........ (hereinafter referred to
    as the Pledgee.) and it is further understood and agreed
    that the Pledgee is interested in any monies which but
     for this Endorsement would be payable to the insured
    under this policy in respect of such loss or damage to the
     vehicle insured as cannot be made good by repair and/
     or replacement of parts and such monies shall be paid to
    the Pledgee as long as they are the Pledgee of the vehicle
    insured and their receipt shall be a full and final discharge
     to the insurer in respect of such loss or damage.
       It is further declared and agreed that for the purpose of
    the Personal Accident Cover for the owner-driver granted
    under this policy, the insured named in the policy will
    continue to be deemed as the owner-driver subject to
    compliance of provisions of the policy relating to this cover.
    Save as by this Endorsement expressly agreed that nothing
    herein shall modify or affect the rights orliabilities ofthe
    Insured orthe Insurer respectively underor in connection
    with this Policy or any term, provision or condition thereof.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this policy.
8.   IMT. 8. DISCOUNT FOR MEMBERSHIP OF RECOGNISED
   AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATIONS (PRIVATE CARS AND
   MOTORISED TWO WHEELERS ONLY)
       It is hereby understood and agreed that in consideration
     of insured’s membership of ......** a discount in premium
     of `.........* is allowed to the insured hereunder from .../.../....
       It is further understood and agreed that  if the insured
    ceases  to be a member  of  the above mentioned
    association during the currency of this Policy the insured
     shall immediately  notify the  insurer accordingly and
    refund to the insurer a proportionate amount of the
    discount allowed on this account for the unexpired period
     of the cover.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of the policy
     * For full policy period, the full tariff discount to be inserted.
    For mid-term membership, prorate proportion of the tariff
    discount for the unexpired policy period is to be inserted.
     ** Insert name of the concerned Automobile Association.
9.   IMT. 9. DISCOUNT FOR VINTAGE CARS (Applicable to
    Private Cars only)
       It is hereby understood and agreed that in consideration
     of the insured car having been certified as a Vintage Car
    by the Vintage and Classic Car Club of India, a discount
     of  `.........*  is allowed to the insured from   ....../......../.......
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of the policy
    *Amount calculated as per  tariff  provision  is  to be
     inserted. For mid-term certification as Vintage Car pro-
    rata proportion of tariff discount for the unexpired period
      is to be inserted.

10. IMT. 10. INSTALLATION OF ANTI-THEFT DEVICE (Not
    applicable to Motor Trade Policies)
     In consideration of certification by .......*that an Anti-Theft
    device approved by Automobile Research Association
     of India (ARAI), Pune has been installed in the vehicle
    insured herein a premium discount of ` .......** is hereby
    allowed to the insured.
       It is hereby understood and agreed that the insured shall
    ensure at all times that this Anti-theft device installed in
    the vehicle insured is maintained in efficient condition till
    the expiry of this policy.
    Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions
    and limitations of the policy
     * The name of the certifying Automobile Association is to
    be inserted.
     ** Premium discount calculated as per tariff provision is
     to be inserted. For mid- term certification of installation of
    Anti Theft device pro-rata proportion of tariff discount for
    the unexpired period is to be inserted.

11. VEHICLES LAID UP
    A.  IMT. 11. A. VEHICLES LAID UP (Lay up period
    declared)
    Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained
    herein it is hereby understood and agreed that from .../.../.....
        to.../.../...... the vehicle insured is laid up in garage and not in
    use and during this period all liability of the insurer under
     this policy in respect of the vehicle insured is suspended
   SAVE ONLY IN RESPECT OF LOSS OR DAMAGE TO THE SAID
    VEHICLE CAUSED BY FIRE EXPLOSION SELF-IGNITION
   OR LIGHTNING OR BURGLARY, HOUSEBREAKING, THEFT
   OR RIOT STRIKE MALICIOUS DAMAGE TERRORISM OR
   STORM TEMPEST FLOOD INUNDATION OR EARTHQUAKE
    PERILS, in consideration whereof
     1.  # The insurer  will deduct from the next renewal
    premium the sum of `.......*and the No Claim Bonus (if any)
     shall be calculated on the next renewal premium after
    deduction of such sum.
     2.  # The period of insurance by this policy is extended to
         .../.../. in view of the payment of an additional premium of
       `.......***
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this policy.
    NB.1. # To delete (a) or (b) as per option exercised by the
     insured.
    NB.2. *The proportionate full policy premium for the period
     of lay up less the proportionate premium for the Fire and/
     or Theft risks for the lay up periods is to be inserted.
    NB.3 ** The proportionate premium required for Fire and/
     or Theft cover for the vehicle for the laid “up period is to
    be inserted”
    NB.4. In case of  Liability Only Policies the words  in
    CAPITALS should be deleted.
    NB.5. In case of policies covering Liability Only and
         a.  Fire risks, the words ‘BURGLARY HOUSEBREAKING
       OR THEFT’ are to be deleted;
         b.  Theft  risks, the words ’FIRE EXPLOSION SELF
         IGNITION OR LIGHTNING’ are to be deleted.
          c.  Fire and Theft risks no part of the words in capitals
          are to be deleted.

B.  IMT. 11. B. VEHICLES LAID UP (Lay up period not
    declared)
    Not with standing anything to the contrary contained
    herein it is hereby understood and agreed that as from
         .../.../.... the vehicle no. ........... insured hereunder is laid up in
    garage and not in use and liability of the insurer under this
     policy in respect of the said vehicle is suspended SAVE
   ONLY IN RESPECT OF LOSS OR DAMAGE TO THE SAID
    VEHICLE CAUSED BY FIRE EXPLOSION SELF-IGNITION
   OR  LIGHTNING OR BURGLARY, HOUSEBREAKING,
   THEFT  OR  RIOT  STRIKE  MALICIOUS  DAMAGE
   TERRORISM OR STORM TEMPEST FLOOD INUNDATION
   OR EARTHQUAKE PERILS.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this Policy.
    NB.1. In case of  Liability Only Policies the words  in
    CAPITALS should be deleted.
    NB.2. In case of policies covering Liability Only and
         a.  Fire risks, the words ‘BURGLARY HOUSEBREAKING
       OR THEFT’ are to be deleted;
         b.  Theft  risks, the words ‘FIRE EXPLOSION SELF
         IGNITION OR LIGHTNING’ are to be deleted.
          c.  Fire and Theft risks no part of the words in capitals
          are to be deleted.

C.  IMT.  11.  C. TERMINATION OF THE UNDECLARED
   PERIOD OF VEHICLE LAID UP
       It is hereby understood and agreed that the insurance by
     this Policy in respect of vehicle no. ..... insured hereunder is
     reinstated in full from ....../....../....... and the
    Endorsement IMT 11(B) attaching to this policy shall
    be deemed to be cancelled.  It  is further agreed that
     in consideration of the period during which the vehicle
     no.   ........ has been out of use
         a. # The insurer will deduct from the next renewal
         premium the sum of `  * and the No Claim Bonus
                 (if any) shall be calculated on the next renewal
         premium after deduction of such sum.
         b. #The period of insurance by this policy is extended
           to  .../.../. in view of the payment of an additional
         premium of `.......***
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
NB.1. # To delete (a) or (b) as per option exercised by the
insured.
NB.2. * The proportionate full policy premium for the period of
     lay up less the proportionate premium for the Fire and/or
    Theft risks for the lay up periods is to be inserted.
NB.3 ** The proportionate premium required for Fire and/or
    Theft cover for the vehicle for the laid-up period is to be
     inserted.
12. IMT.  12. DISCOUNT FOR  SPECIALLY  DESIGNED/
   MODIFIED VEHICLES FOR THE BLIND, HANDICAPPED
   AND MENTALLY CHALLENGED PERSONS.
    Not with standing anything to the contrary contained
     in the policy it is hereby understood and agreed that the
     vehicle insured being specially designed/modified for use
     of blind, handicapped and mentally challenged persons
    and suitable endorsement to  this  effect having been
    incorporated in the Registration Book by the Registering
     Authority, a discount of 50% on the Own Damage premium
     for the vehicle insured is hereby allowed to the insured.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of the policy.
13. IMT. 13. USE OF VEHICLE WITHIN INSURED’S OWN
   PREMISES (Applicable to all classes except as otherwise
    provided in the tariff)
       It is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer shall
    not be liable in respect of the vehicle insured while the
     vehicle is being used elsewhere than in the insured’s
    premises except where the vehicle is specifically required
     for a mission to fight a fire.
    For the purposes of this endorsement “Use confined to
   own premises” shall mean use only on insured’s premises
     to which public have no general right
 14. IMT.  14. USE OF VEHICLE CONFINED TO  SITES
    (Applicable to Goods Carrying Vehicles)
       It is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer shall
    not be liable in respect of the vehicle insured while it is
    being used elsewhere than on site to which the public have
    no general right of access and the vehicle is not required to
    be registered under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
15. IMT.  15. PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER TO THE
   INSURED OR ANY NAMED PERSON OTHER THAN
    PAID  DRIVER OR CLEANER (Applicable to private
    cars including three wheelers rated as private cars and
    motorized two wheelers with or without side car (not
     for hire or reward))
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
       it is hereby agreed and understood that the Company
    undertakes to pay compensation on the scale provided
    below for bodily injury as hereinafter defined sustained
    by the insured person  in  direct connection with the
     vehicle insured or whilst mounting and dismounting
    from or  traveling  in  vehicle insured and caused by
     violent accidental external and  visible means which
    independently of any other cause shall within six calendar
    months of the occurrence of such injury result in:-

     Nature of injury           Scale of compensation
         (i) Death                    100%
         (ii) Loss of two limbs or           100%
      sight of two eyes or one
     limb and sight of one eye.
          (iii) Loss of one limb or           50%
      sight of one eye
       (iv) Permanent total             100%
     disablement from injuries
     other than named above.
Provided always that
I.   Compensation shall be payable under only one of the
    items (i) to (iv) above in respect of any such person arising
    out of any one occurrence and total liability of the insurer
     shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum of `........* during
    any one period of insurance in respect of any such person.
II.  No compensation shall be payable in respect of death
     or injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising or
     resulting from or traceable to
     1. intentional  self injury suicide or attempted suicide
       physical defect or infirmity or (b) an accident happening
       whilst such person is under the influence of intoxicating
        liquor or drugs.
III.  Such compensation  shall be payable only with the
    approval of the insured named in the policy and directly
     to the injured person or his/her legal representative(s)
   whose receipt shall be a full discharge in respect of the
     injury of such person.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this policy.
     * The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per passenger is to be
     inserted.

16. IMT.  16.  PERSONAL  ACCIDENT  TO  UNNAMED
   PASSENGERS OTHER THAN INSURED AND THE PAID
   DRIVER AND CLEANER {For vehicles rated as Private
    cars and Motorised two wheelers (not for hire or reward)
    with or without side car}
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
       it  is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer
    undertakes to pay compensation on the scale provided
    below for bodily injuries hereinafter defined sustained
    by any passenger other than the insured and/or the paid
     driver attendant or cleaner and/or a person in the employ
     of the insured coming within the scope of the Workmen’s
    Compensation Act, 1923 and subsequent amendments
     of the said Act and engaged in and upon the service of
    the insured at the time such injury is sustained whilst
    mounting into, dismounting from or traveling in the insured
    motor car and caused by violent, accidental, external and
     visible means which independently of any other cause
     shall within three calendar months of the occurrence of
    such injury result in :

     Nature of injury           Scale of compensation
         (i) Death                    100%
         (ii) Loss of two limbs or           100%
      sight of two eyes or one
     limb and sight of one eye.
          (iii) Loss of one limb or           50%
      sight of one eye
       (iv) Permanent total             100%
     disablement from injuries
     other than named above.

Provided always that: -
I.   Compensation shall be payable under only one of the
    items (i) to (iv) above in respect of any such person arising
    out of any one occurrence and total liability of the insurer
     shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum of  `.......***
    during any one period of insurance in respect of any such
    person.
II.  No compensation shall be payable in respect of death
     or injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising or
     resulting from or traceable to
     (a) intentional self injury suicide or attempted suicide
    physical defect or infirmity or
     (b) an accident happening whilst such person is under the
     influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
III.  Such compensation  shall be payable only with the
    approval of the insured named in the policy and directly
     to the injured person or his/ her legal representative(s)
   whose receipt shall be a full discharge in respect of the
     injury of such person.
IV.  Not more than  .......**persons/passengers  are  in  the
     vehicle insured at the time of occurrence of such injury.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this policy.
     * The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per passenger is to be
     inserted.
     ** The registered sitting capacity of the vehicle insured is
     to be inserted.

17. IMT.  17. PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER TO PAID
    DRIVERS, CLEANERS AND CONDUCTORS: (Applicable
    to all classes of vehicles)
      In consideration of the payment of an additional premium, it
      is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer undertakes
     to pay compensation on the scale provided below for bodily
     injury as hereinafter defined sustained by the paid driver/
     cleaner/conductor in the employ of the insured in direct
    connection with the vehicle insured whilst mounting into
    dismounting from or traveling in the insured vehicle and
    caused by violent accidental external and visible means
    which independently of any other cause shall within six
    calendar months of the occurrence of such injury result in :-

 Nature of injury                        Scale of
                                    compensation
  (i) Death                           100%
  (ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two eyes     100%
 or one limb and sight of one eye.
  (iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye       50%
 (iv) Permanent total disablement from       100%
 injuries other than named above.

Provided always that
I.   Compensation shall be payable under only one of the
    items (i) to (iv) above in respect of any such person arising
    out of any one occurrence and total liability of the insurer
     shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum of `..... * during
    any one period of insurance in respect of any such person.
II.  No compensation shall be payable in respect of death
     or injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising or
     resulting from or traceable to
     (a) intentional self injury suicide or attempted suicide
    physical defect or infirmity or
     (b) an accident happening whilst such person is under the
     influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
III.  Such compensation  shall be payable only with the
    approval of the insured named in the policy and directly
     to the injured person or his/her legal representative(s)
   whose receipt shall be a full discharge in respect of the
     injury of such person.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
* The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per person is to be inserted.
18. IMT.  18.  PERSONAL  ACCIDENT  TO  UNNAMED
   HIRER  AND  UNNAMED  PILLION  PASSENGERS
    (Applicable to Motorised Two wheelers with or without
    side Car)
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it
      is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer undertakes
     to pay compensation  to any unnamed  hirer/driver/any
    unnamed pillion/sidecar passenger* on the scale provided
    below  for  bodily  injury caused by  violent,  accidental,
     external and visible means whilst mounting into/onto and/
     or dismounting from or traveling in/on the vehicle insured
    which independently of any other cause shall within three
    calendar months of the occurrence of such injury results in :-

 Nature of injury                        Scale of
                                    compensation
  (i) Death                           100%
  (ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two eyes     100%
 or one limb and sight of one eye.
  (iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye       50%
  (iv) Permanent total disablement from       100%
 injuries other than named above.
Provided always that:
I.   Compensation shall be payable under only one of the
    items (i) to (iv) above in respect of any such person arising
    out of any one occurrence and total liability of the insurer
     shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum of `.......** during
    any one period of insurance in respect of any such person.
II.  No compensation shall be payable in respect of death
     or injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising or
     resulting from or traceable to
     (a) intentional self injury suicide or attempted suicide
    physical defect or infirmity or
     (b) an accident happening whilst such person is under the
     influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
III.  Such compensation  shall be payable only with the
    approval of the insured named in the policy and directly
     to the injured person or his/her legal representative(s)
   whose receipt shall be a full discharge in respect of the
     injury of such person.
IV.  Not more than   ............. persons/passengers are in the
     vehicle insured at the time of occurrence of such injury.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this policy.
     *  Delete   if  P.A.  cover  for unnamed  pillion/side  car
    passenger is not taken.
     ** The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per passenger is to be
     inserted.

19. IMT. 19. COVER FOR VEHICLES IMPORTED WITHOUT
   CUSTOMS DUTY
    Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary contained
     in this policy it is hereby understood and agreed that in
    the event of loss or damage to the vehicle insured and/
     or its accessories necessitating the supply of a part not
    obtainable from stocks held in the country in which the
     vehicle insured is held for repair or in the event of the
     insurer exercising the option under ...., * to pay in cash the
    amount of the loss or damage the liability of the insurer in
    respect of any such part shall be limited to :-
1.   a. The price quoted in the latest catalogue or the price
      list issued by the Manufacturer or his Agent for the
    country in which the vehicle insured is held for repair less
    depreciation applicable; OR
     b. If no such catalogue or price list exists the price list
       obtaining  at  the  Manufacturer’s Works  plus  the
      reasonable cost of transport otherwise than by air
       to the country in which the vehicle insured is held for
       repair and the amount of the relative import duty less
       depreciation applicable under the Policy; and
2.  The reasonable cost of fitting such parts.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
     * Insert ‘Condition 3’ in the case of the Private Car and
    Motorsied Two Wheeler Policies and ‘Condition 4’ in the
    case of Commercial Vehicles Policy.

20. IMT. 20. REDUCTION IN THE LIMIT OF LIABILITY FOR
   PROPERTY DAMAGE
       It is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding
    anything to the contrary contained in the policy the insurers
      liability is limited to `6000/- (Rupees six thousand only) for
   damage to property other than the property belonging to the
     insured or held in trust or in custody or control of the insured.
     In consideration of this reduction in the limit of liability
    a reduction in premium of `......* is hereby made to the
     insured.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of the policy.
    *To insert `50 for Two wheelers, `100 for private cars `150
     for Commercial Vehicles- three wheelers and taxis or `200
     for Commercial Vehicles (excluding three wheelers and taxis).

21. IMT. 21. SPECIAL EXCLUSIONS AND COMPULSORY
   DEDUCTIBLE (Applicable to  all Commercial Vehicles
    excluding taxis and motorized two wheelers carrying
    passengers for hire or reward.)
    Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary contained
    herein it is hereby understood and agreed that
        I.   Special Exclusions
        Except in the case of Total Loss of the vehicle insured,
        the insurer shall not be liable under Section I of the
         policy for loss of or damage to lamps tyres/tubes
       mudguards bonnet side parts bumpers and paint
        work.
        II.  Compulsory Deductible
     In addition to any amount which the insured may be
    required to bear under para (a) above the insured shall
    also bear under section I of the policy in respect of each
    and every event (including event giving  rise to total
     loss/constructive total loss/Cash Loss) the first  `.......*of
    any expenditure(or any less expenditure which may be
     incurred) for which provision is made under this policy
    and/or of any expenditure by the insurer in the exercise of
      its discretion under Condition No.4 of this policy.
       If the expenditure incurred by the insurer shall include any
    amount for which the insured is responsible hereunder
    such amount shall be repaid by the insured to the insurer
     forthwith.
    For the purpose of  this Endorsement the expression
     ‘event’ shall mean an event or series of events arising
    out of one cause in connection with the vehicle insured in
    respect of which indemnity is provided under this policy.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
     * To insert amount as appropriate to the class of vehi
     cle insured as per GR.40 of the tariff.

22. IMT. 22. COMPULSORY DEDUCTIBLE (Applicable to
    Private Cars, three wheelers rated as private cars, all
    motorized two wheelers, taxis, private car type vehicle
    plying for public/private hire, private type taxi let out on
    private hire
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
     policy it is hereby understood and agreed that the insured
     shall bear under Section 1 of the policy in respect of each
    and every event (including event giving rise to a total
     loss/constructive total loss/Cash Loss) the first `.......*(or
    any less expenditure which may be incurred) of any
    expenditure for which provision has been made under
     this policy and/or of any expenditure by the insurer in the
     exercise of his discretion under Condition no .......** of this
     policy.
       If the expenditure incurred by the insurer shall include any
    amount for which the insured is responsible hereunder
    such amount shall be repaid by the insured to the insurer
     forthwith.
    For the purpose of  this Endorsement the expression
     ‘event’ shall mean an event or series of events arising
    out of one cause in connection with the vehicle insured in
    respect of which indemnity is provided under this policy.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
*1.  To insert amount as appropriate to the class of vehicle
    insured as per GR.40 of the tariff.
2.   In respect of a vehicle rated under the Tariff for Private
    Car and  in respect of a motorised two wheeler not
    carrying passengers for hire or reward, if any deductible
     in addition to the compulsory deductible provided in this
    endorsement is voluntarily borne by the insured, the sum
    representing the aggregate of the compulsory and the
    voluntary deductibles is to be inserted.
** To insert Condition no 3 in respect of a vehicle rated under
Tariff for Private Car/Two wheelers or Condition no 4 in respect
of a vehicle rated under the Tariff for Commercial Vehicles.

23. IMT. 22. A. VOLUNTARY DEDUCTIBLE (For private cars/
    motorized two wheelers other than for hire or reward)
       It is by declared and agreed that the insured having
    opted a voluntary deductible of `...................* a reduction in
    premium of `......** under Section 1 of the policy is hereby
    allowed.
     In consideration of the above, it is hereby understood and
    agreed that the insured shall bear under Section 1 of the
     policy in respect of each and every event (including event
     giving rise to a total loss/constructive total loss/Cash Loss)
    the first `...................*** (or any less expenditure which may
    be incurred) of any expenditure for which provision has
    been made under this policy and/or of any expenditure by
    the insurer in the exercise of his discretion under Condition
    no ................... # of this policy.
       If the expenditure incurred by the insurer shall include any
    amount for which the insured is responsible hereunder
    such amount shall be repaid by the insured to the insurer
     forthwith.
    For the purpose of this Endorsement the expression ‘event’
     shall mean an event or series of events arising out of one
    cause in connection with the vehicle insured in respect of
    which indemnity is provided under this policy.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
     * To insert voluntary deductible amount opted by the
    insured under tariff for Private car/tariff for motorised two
    wheeler.
     ** To insert appropriate amount relating to the voluntary
    deductible opted as per the provision of tariff for Private
     car/tariff for motorised two wheelers.
     *** To insert aggregate amount of voluntary deductible
    opted and the compulsory deductible applicable to the
     vehicle insured as in G.R. 40.
   # To insert policy condition No. 3 of the tariff for private
     car/tariff for motorised two wheelers.
24. IMT.   23.  COVER  FOR  LAMPS  TYRES/TUBES
   MUDGUARDS  BONNET/  SIDE  PARTS  BUMPERS
   HEADLIGHTS  AND  PAINTWORK  OF  DAMAGED
   PORTION ONLY. (For all Commercial Vehicles)
     In consideration of payment of an additional premium of
        `........*, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
     in the policy it is hereby understood and agreed that subject
     to conditions (a) (b) and (c) hereunder loss of or damage
     (excluding theft under any circumstances) to lamps tyres/
    tubes mudguards bonnet/side parts bumpers headlights
    and paintwork of damaged portion only is covered provided
    the vehicle is also damaged at the same time.
    Subject to:
           I.   Depreciation as per schedule provided in Section 1 of
         the policy. It is further understood and agreed that in
          respect of paint work for the damaged portion only
          (as referred to above) shall also be as per schedule
         provided in Section 1 of the policy.
           II.   In addition to any amount which the insured may be
          required to bear under para (a) above, the insured
           shall also bear 50% of the assessed loss in respect of
        each and every claim under this Endorsement.
           III.   It  is also understood  that no deductible other
         than those mentioned in (a) and (b) above shall
        be applicable in respect of a claim which become
         payable under this Endorsement.
          Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations
        and exceptions of this Policy.
          * To insert the sum arrived at as per the provisions of
          G.R.40. NB.3. of the Tariff.

25. IMT. 24. ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC FITTINGS (Items
     fitted in the vehicle but not included in the manufacturer’s
     listed selling price of the vehicle. Package Policy only)
     In consideration of the payment of additional premium
     of   `.........,  notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary
    contained in the policy it is hereby understood and agreed
    that the insurer will indemnify the insured against loss of
     or damage to such electrical and/or electronic fitting(s)
    as specified in the schedule whilst it/these is/are fitted
     in or on the vehicle insured where such loss or damage
      is occasioned by any ofthe perilsmentioned in Section.1
    ofthe policy.
    The insurer  shall, however, not be  liable  for loss of
     or damage to such fitting(s) caused by/as a result of
    mechanical or electrical breakdown.
    Provided always that the liability of the insurer hereunder
     shall not exceed the Insured’s Declared Value (IDV) of the
     item. Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations
    and exceptions of this Policy.
26. IMT. 25. CNG/LPG KIT IN BI-FUEL SYSTEM (Own Damage
    cover for the kit)
     In consideration of the payment of premium of  `.........*
    notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
     policy it is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer
     will indemnify the insured in terms conditions limitations
    and exceptions of Section 1 of the policy against loss and/
     or damage to the CNG/LPG kit fitted in the vehicle insured
     arising from an accidental loss or damage to the vehicle
     insured, subject to the limit of the Insured’s Declared Value
     of the CNG/LPG kit specified in the Schedule ofthe policy.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
     * To insert sum arrived at in terms of G.R.42.Subject
    otherwise  to  the  terms  conditions  limitations  and
    exceptions of this Policy.
     * To insert sum arrived at in terms of G.R.42.

27. IMT. 26. FIRE AND/OR THEFT RISKS ONLY (Not applicable
     for Miscellaneous and Special Types of vehicles ratable
    under Class-D and Motor Trade Policies under Classes-E,
    F and G of the Commercial Vehicles Tariff)
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
     policy it is hereby understood and agreed that Section II
     of the Policy is deemed to be cancelled and under Section
        I thereof the insurer shall only be liable to indemnify the
    insured against loss or damage by fire explosion self
     ignition lightning and/or burglary housebreaking theft
    and riot strike malicious damage terrorism storm tempest
     flood inundation and earthquake perils whilst the vehicle
      is laid up in garage and not in use.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
    NB. a.  In case of Fire Risk only, the words ‘burglary
           housebreaking theft’ are to be deleted.
    NB. b.  In case of Theft Risk only, the words ‘fire explosion
              self ignition lightning riot strike malicious damage
             terrorism storm tempest flood inundation and
           earthquake perils’ are to be deleted.

28. IMT. 27. LIABILITY AND FIRE AND/OR THEFT (Not
    applicable  for Miscellaneous and Special Types  of
    vehicles rateable under Class  ‘D’ of the  Tariff  for
    Commercial Vehicles)
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
    the policy it is hereby understood and agreed that Section
        I of the Policy the insurer shall not be liable there under
    except in respect of loss or damage by fire explosion self
     ignition lightning and/or burglary housebreaking theft
    and riot strike malicious damage terrorism storm tempest
     flood inundation and earthquake perils.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of the Policy.
    NB. a.  In case of Liability and Fire Risks only, the words
             ‘burglary housebreaking theft’ are to be deleted.
    NB. b.   In case of Liability and Theft Risks only, the words
                fire  explosion  self  ignition  lightning  riot  strike
            malicious damage terrorism storm tempest flood
            inundation and earthquake perils’ are to be deleted.

29. LEGAL   LIABILITY  TO  PAID  DRIVER  AND/OR
   CONDUCTOR  AND/OR  CLEANER  EMPLOYED  IN
   CONNECTION WITH THE OPERATION OF INSURED
    VEHICLE (For all Classes of vehicles)
     In  consideration  of an  additional premium  of  `50/-
    notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
    the policy  it is hereby understood and agreed that the
     insurer shall indemnify the insured against the insured’s
     legal liability under the Workmen’s Compensation Act,
    1923, the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 or at Common Law
    and subsequent amendments of these Acts prior to the
    date of this Endorsement in respect of personal injury to
    any paid driver and/or conductor and/or cleaner whilst
    engaged in the service of the insured in such occupation
     in connection with the vehicle insured herein and will
     in addition be responsible for  all costs and expenses
    incurred with its written consent.
    Provided always that
         I.    This Endorsement does not indemnify the insured
           in respect of any liability in cases where the insured
         holds or subsequently effects with any insurer or
        group of insurers a Policy of Insurance in respect
          of liability as herein defined for insured’s general
        employees;
        II.   The insured shall take reasonable precautions to
         prevent accidents and shall comply with all statutory
          obligations;
       *III. The insured shall keep record of the name of each
         paid driver conductor cleaner or persons employed
           in loading and/or unloading and the amount of
       wages and salaries and other earnings paid to such
        employees and shall at all times allow the insurer to
         inspect such records on demand.
      IV.   In the event of the Policy being cancelled at the
         request of the insured no refund of the premium paid
           in respect of this Endorsement will be allowed.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of the Policy except so far as necessary to
    meet the requirements of the Motor VehiclesAct, 1988.
     *In case of Private cars/motorised two wheelers (not used
     for hire or reward) delete this para.

30. IMT. 29. LEGAL LIABILITY TO EMPLOYEES OF THE
   INSURED  OTHER THAN  PAID  DRIVER  AND/OR
   CONDUCTOR AND/OR  CLEANER WHO MAY  BE
   TRAVELLING OR DRIVING IN THE EMPLOYER’S CAR
    {Private Cars only/Motorised two wheelers (not for hire
    or reward)}
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
  @ `25/- per employee insured notwithstanding anything
     to the contrary contained  in the policy  it  is hereby
    understood and agreed that the insurer will indemnify the
    insured against the insured’s liability at Common Law and
    Statutory Liability under the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 for
    compensation (including legal costs of any claimant) for
    death of or bodily injury to any employee (other than paid
     drivers) of the within named insured being carried in or
    upon or entering in or getting on to or alighting from or
     driving the vehicle insured.
    Provided that in the event of an accident whilst the
     vehicle insured is carrying more than  .....* employees of
    the insured (including the driver) the insured shall repay
     to the insurer a rateable proportion of the total amount
    payable by the insurer by the reason of this endorsement
     in respect of accident in connection with such vehicle
     insured.  Subject  otherwise  to  the  terms,  conditions
     limitations and exceptions of this Policy.
    NB. * To insert the number of employees for which the
    premium has been paid.

31. IMT. 30. TRAILERS (Applicable to Private Cars Only)
    In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
      it is hereby understood and agreed that the indemnity
   granted by this policy shall extend to apply to the Trailer
    (Registration No..............).
   Provided always that -
      *I.  The IDV of such  Trailer  shall be deemed not to
       exceed ......**
       II.  The term  ‘Trailer’ shall not include  its contents or
       anything contained thereon.
       III.  Such indemnity shall not apply in respect of death or
        bodily injury to any person being conveyed by the said
         Trailer otherwise than by reason of or in pursuance of
      a contract of employment.
    Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
    * Delete in the case of Liability to the public Risks only
    policies.
    ** Insert value of  trailer as declared at inception of
    insurance or any renewal thereof.
32. IMT. 31. RELIABILITY TRIALS AND RALLIES [Private Cars
   and Motorised Two Wheelers
    In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
      it is hereby understood and agreed that the indemnity
   granted by this Policy is extended to apply whilst the
    vehicle insured is engaged in .......... ......*. to be held at ....**...
   on or about the date of ......../........./............ under the auspices
    of ....... ..............#
   Provided that :-
        I.  No indemnity shall be granted by this Endorsement to ......... #
       II. This Policy does not cover use for organised racing,
      pace making or speed testing.
       III. During the course of the ...................* the Insurer shall not
      be liable in respect of death of or bodily injury to any
      person being carried in or upon or entering or getting on
       to or alighting from the vehicle insured at the time of the
       occurrence of the event out of which any claim arises.
   # #  It is further understood and agreed that while the
    vehicle insured is engaged in ...........* the insured shall bear
    the first `......@ (or any less amount for which the claim may
   be assessed) of each and every claim under Section I of
    this Policy.
    Provided that  if the insurer shall make any payment in
    exercise of its discretion under Condition No. 3 of the policy
    in settlement of any claim and such payment includes the
   amount for which the insured is responsible by reason of this
   Endorsement the insured shall repay to the insurer forthwith
    the amount for which the insured is so responsible. For the
   purpose of this Endorsement the expression ‘claim’ shall
   mean a claim or series of claims arising out of one event.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
    * To insert the name of the event.
  @ To  insert `5000/-  for Private cars or `2500/-  for
   motorised two wheelers.
    For the duration of the event the deductible under Section
   1 of the policy for the purpose of IMT 22 will be the amount
    stated in IMT 22 or the amount stated herein, whichever
     is higher.
    ** To insert the venue of the event.
   # To insert the name of the promoters of the event.
   # # To delete this entire paragraph in case of Liability Only
     policies.
33. IMT. 32. ACCIDENTS TO SOLDIERS/SAILORS/AIRMEN
   EMPOYED AS DRIVERS
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
     of `100/-*  it is hereby understood and agreed that in
    the event of any Soldier/Sailor/Airman employed by the
    insured to drive the vehicle insured being injured or killed
     whilst so employed, this policy will extend to relieve the
    insured of his liability to indemnify Ministry of Defence
    under the respective Regulations.
    Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
     * This additional premium is flat and irrespective of period
     of insurance not exceeding 12 months. Any extension of
    the policy period beyond 12 months will call for payment
     of further additional premium under this endorsement.
34.  IMT.  33. LOSS OF ACCESSORIES  (Applicable  to
    Motorised Two Wheeler Policies only)
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
     of `.................. it is hereby understood and agreed that as
    from  .........../.........../........... notwithstanding anything to the
    contrary contained in Section I but subject otherwise to
    the terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this
     Policy the insurer will indemnify the insured in respect
     of loss of or damage to accessories the property of the
     insured, specifically declared by the insured caused by
     burglary, housebreaking or theft.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this policy.
35. IMT. 34. USE OF COMMERCIAL TYPE VEHICLES FOR
   BOTH  COMMERCIAL  AND  PRIVATE  PURPOSES
    (Applicable to Commercial Vehicle Policies only)
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
     of  `........ and notwithstanding anything to the contrary
    contained herein it is hereby understood and agreed that
       I.  The insurer will indemnify the insured against his legal
          liability under Common Law and Statutory Liability
       under the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 in respect of
       death of or bodily injury to any person not being an
       employee of the insured nor carried for hire or reward,
        whilst being carried in or upon or entering or mounting
        or alighting from any motor vehicle described in the
       Schedule to this Policy.
       II.  This  Policy  shall be operative whilst any  vehicle
       described in the Schedule hereto is being used by the
        insured or by any other person with the permission of
       the Insured for social, domestic, or pleasure purposes.
    Whilst any such vehicle is being so used the insurer will
     in terms and subject to the limitations of and for the
    purposes of Section  II of this policy treat as though he
    were the Insured person using such vehicle provided that
    such person -a. Is not entitled to indemnity under any
    other Policy.
    b. Shall as though he were the insured observe,  fulfill
     and be subject to the terms, provisions, conditions and
     endorsements of this Policy in so far as they apply.
     purposes of Section II of this policy treat as though he
     were the Insured person using such vehicle provided
      that such person -
     a.    Is not entitled to indemnity under any other Policy.
     b.   Shall as though he were the insured observe, fulfill
       and be subject to the terms, provisions, conditions and
        endorsements of this Policy in so far as they apply.
      c.  Has not been refused any Motor Vehicle Insurance or
        continuance thereof by any insurer.
    Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
   NOTE : In case of Liability only Policies delete (1) above

36. IMT.  35.  HIRED  VEHICLES,  DRIVEN  BY  HIRER*
    (Applicable to four wheeled vehicles with carrying
    capacity not exceeding 6 passengers and Motorised
   Two wheelers)
       It is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding
    anything to the contrary contained in this Policy unless
    the vehicle insured is being driven by or is for the purpose
of being driven by the insured in the charge of the within
named insured or a driver in the insured’s employment, the
policy shall only be operative whilst the vehicle insured is
let on hire by the insured to any person (hereinafter called
the Hirer) who:-
I.   Shall have entered into a hire contract with the insured
   and who prior to such hiring shall have satisfactorily
   completed and signed a supplementary proposal
    form**.
II.  Shall have satisfied the insured -
   a.  That the vehicle insured will only be driven by a
       duly licensed driver whose license has not been
      endorsed;
    b.  That such driver has not been refused Motor
      Insurance nor had his/her insurance policy been
       cancelled nor had special conditions imposed nor
     had increased premium demanded from him/her
      by reason of claims experience.
It is also understood and agreed that whilst the vehicle
insured is let on hire to the Hirer the insurer shall not be
liable.
1.  For any loss, damage or liability due to or arising
   from theft or conversion by the Hirer unless covered
   by payment of additional premium @ 1.50% on IDV.
    (Endt. IMT 43 is to be used.)
2.  To pay the first  `................... of each and every claim
    in respect of which indemnity would but for this
   endorsement have been provided by Section I of this
    Policy.
      If the expenditure incurred by the Insurer shall include
    the amount  for which the Insured  is responsible
    hereunder, such amount shall be repaid by the insured
    to the Insurer forthwith.
    For the purpose of this endorsement the expression
    ‘Claim’ shall mean a claim or series of claims arising
    out of one cause in respect of the vehicle.

3.   If the vehicle is used by the Hirer for carriage of
   passengers for hire or reward.
* For the purposes of this endorsement the insurer will in
terms of and subject to the provisions contained in item I
of Section II of this Policy, treat the Hirer as a person who
is driving the Two wheeler.
Further  it is agreed that the insured shall forward to
the  insurer  the supplementary  proposal  referred  to
above, completed by the Hirer immediately after receipt
thereofwhich proposal as well as that referred to in this
policy shall be the basis of the contract expressed in this
endorsement so far as it relates to the indemnity which
is operative whilst the vehicle is let on hire to such Hirer.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions
and limitations of this Policy.
NOTE: For Liability only policies delete the whole of items
(1) and (2) and the paragraph in bold marked with*.
** Insurer to devise a suitable supplementary proposal
form.
37.  IMT.  36. INDEMNITY TO HIRER (Package  Policy  -
    Negligence of the insured or Hirer)
       It is hereby declared and agreed that the company will
    indemnify any hirer of the vehicle insured against loss,
   damage and  liability as defined in this Policy arising
     in connection with the vehicle insured by reason of
    the negligence of the within named insured or of any
    employee of such insured while the vehicle insured is let
    on hire.
    Provided that any such hirer shall as though he/she were
    the insured observe fulfill and be subject to the terms,
    exceptions, conditions and limitations of this policy in so
     far as they apply.

38. IMT. 37. LEGAL LIABILITY TO NON  - Fare Paying
    Passengers other than Statutory Liability except the
    Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 (Commercial Vehicles only)
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
     of   `................... and  notwithstanding  anything  to  the
    contrary contained in Section II-1 (b) and (c) it is hereby
    understood and agreed that the Company will Indemnify
    the Insured against his legal liability other than liability
    under the Statute (except the Fatal Accidents Act 1855)
     in respect of death of or bodily injury to:-
         I.  Any employee of the within named insured who is
        not a workman within the meaning of the Workmen’s
       Compensation Act Prior to date of this endorsement
       and not being carried for hire or reward.
        II.  Any other person not being carried for hire or reward
        provided that the person is
          a. Charterer or representative of the charterer of the
            truck
          b. Any other person directly connected with the
            journey in one form orother being carried in or
          upon or entering or mounting or alighting from
          any Motor Vehicle described in the schedule of the
              policy.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitation of this policy.

39. IMT. 37. A. LEGAL LIABILITY TO NON FARE PAYING
   PASSENGERS WHO ARE NOT EMPLOYEES OF THE
   INSURED (Commercial Vehicles only)
     In consideration of the paying of an additional premium of
         `................... and notwithstanding anything to the contrary
    contained in Section II-1 (C) it is hereby understood and
    agreed that the company  will indemnify the insured
    against his legal liability other than liability under statute
    (except Fatal Accidents Act 1855) in respect of death or
     bodily injury to any person not being an employee of the
    insured and not carried for hire or reward provided that
    the person is
         I.   Charterer or representative of the charterer of the
         truck.
        II.  Any other person directly connected with the journey
         in one form or the other being carried in or upon or
        entering or mounting or alighting from vehicle insured
        described in the SCHEDULE OF THIS POLICY.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this policy.

40. IMT. 38. LEGAL LIABILITY TO FARE PAYINGPASSENGERS
   EXCLUDING LIABILITY FOR ACCIDENTS TO EMPLOYEES
   OF THE INSURED ARISING OUT OF AND IN THE
   COURSE OF THEIR EMPLOYMENT (Commercial and
    Motor Trade Vehicles only)
(I)  For use with Package Policies.
     In consideration of an additional premium of  `...................
    and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
     in Section II-1 (C) but subject otherwise to the terms,
    exceptions, conditions and limitations of this policy, the
     insurer will indemnify the insured against liability at Law
     for compensation (including Law costs of any claimant)
     for death of or bodily injury to any person other than a
    person excluded under Section II-1 (B) being carried in or
    upon or entering or mounting or alighting from the Motor
     Vehicle.
    Provided always that in the event of an accident occurring
     whilst the Motor Vehicle is carrying more than the number
     of persons mentioned in the Schedule hereto as being the
     licensed carrying capacity of that vehicle in addition to the
    conductor if any then the Insured shall repay to the Insurer
    rateable proportion of the total amount which would be
    payable by the Insurer by reason of this endorsement if
    not more than the said number of persons were carried in
    the Motor Vehicle. Provided further that in computing the
    number of persons for the purpose of this endorsement
    any three children not exceeding 15 years of age will
    be reckoned as two persons and any child in arms not
    exceeding 3 years of age will be disregarded. Provided
    also that the provisions of condition 3 of the Policy are
    also applicable to a claim or series of claims under this
    endorsement.
Provided further that in the event of Policy being cancelled
at the request of the insured no refund of premium paid in
respect of this endorsement will be allowed.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
(II)  For use with Liability only Policy.
     In consideration of an additional premium of  `....... and
    subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions
    and limitations of this Policy, the insurer will indemnify
    the insured against  liability at Law for compensation
     (including Law Costs of any claimant) for death of or
     bodily injury to any person other than a person excluded
    under general exception being carried in or upon or
    entering or mounting or alighting from the Motor Vehicle.
    Provided always that in the event of an accident occurring
     whilst the Motor Vehicle is carrying more than the number
     of persons mentioned in the Schedule hereto as being the
     licensed carrying capacity of that vehicle in addition to the
    conductor if any then the insured shall repay to the Insurer
    rateable proportion of the total amount which would be
    payable by the Insurer by reason of this endorsement if
    not more than the said number of persons were carried in
    the Motor Vehicle.
    Provided further that in computing the number of persons
     for the purpose of this endorsement any 3 children not
    exceeding 15 years of age  will be reckoned as two
    persons and any children in arms not exceeding 3 years of
    age will be disregarded. Provided further that in the event
     of Policy being cancelled at the request of the insured no
    refund of premium paid in respect of this endorsement
     will be allowed.
    Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions
    and limitations of this Policy.
41. IMT. 39. LEGAL LIABILITY TO PERSONS EMPLOYED
    IN CONNECTION WITH THE OPERATION AND/OR
   MAINTAINING AND/OR LOADING AND/OR UNLOADING
   OF MOTOR VEHICLES. (for Goods Vehicle)
     In  consideration  of  the payment  of an  additional
    premium of  *......  it  is hereby understood and agreed
    that notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
    contrary the insurer shall indemnify the insured against
     his legal liability under the Workmen’s Compensation Act,
    1923 and subsequent amendments of that Act prior to the
    date of this Endorsement, the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855
     or at Common Law in respect of personal injury to any
    paid driver (or cleaner or conductor or person employed in
     loading/or unloading but in any case not exceeding seven
     in number including driver and cleaner) whilst engaged in
    the service of the insured in such occupation in connection
    with the .... and not exceeding seven in number and will
     in addition be responsible for  all costs and expenses
     incurred with its written consent.
    Provided always that : -
          I.  This Endorsement does not indemnify the insured
          in respect of any liability in cases where the insured
        holds or subsequently effects with any insurer or
       Group of Underwriters a Policy of Insurance in respect
         of liability as herein defined for his general employees.
          II. The insured shall take reasonable precautions to
        prevent accidents and shall comply with all statutory
         obligations.
          III. The insured shall keep a record of the name of each
         driver  cleaner  conductor  or person employed  in
        loading and/or unloading and the amount of wages
        salary and other earnings paid to such employees and
         shall at times allow the insurer to inspect such record.
       IV. In the event of the Policy being cancelled at the
        request of the insured no refund of the premium paid
          in respect of this Endorsement will be allowed.
    The premium to be calculated at the rate of `25/- per driver
    and/or cleaner or conductor and/or person employed in
    loading and/or unloading but not exceeding the number
    permitted by the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 including driver
    and cleaner.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this Policy except so far as necessary to
    meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
42. IMT. 39. A. LEGAL LIABILITY UNDER THE WORKMEN’S
   COMPENSATION ACT, 1923  IN RESPECT OF THE
   CARRIAGE  OF  MORE  THAN  SIX  EMPLOYEES
   (EXCLUDING THE DRIVER)  IN GOODS CARRYING
    VEHICLES.
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
       it is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding
    anything to the contrary contained herein the company
     shall indemnify the insured against his legal  liability
    under the Workmen’s Compensation  Act, 1923 and
    subsequent amendments to that Act prior to the date of
     this endorsement in respect of death of or bodily injury
     to any person (other than the paid driver) exceeding six
     in number whilst being carried in the Motor vehicle and
     will in addition be responsible for all costs and expenses
    incurred with its written consent.
    Provided always that :-
         I.  The Company shall not be liable by virtue of this
       Endorsement to indemnify the insured  in respect
         of any liability in cases where the insured holds or
        subsequently effects with any insurance company
        or group of Underwriters a Policy of Insurance in
        respect of liability as herein defined for his general
       employees and where the Insured has not obtained
        special permission from the registration authorities
         for carriage of more than six such employees.
        II.  The insured shall take reasonable precautions to
        prevent accidents and shall comply with all statutory
         obligations.
         III. The insured shall keep a record of the name of each
        person employed in connection with the loading and
        unloading of the vehicles and the amount of wages
         salary and other earnings paid to such employees and
         shall at all times allow the Insurer to inspect such record.
      IV.  In the event of the Policy being cancelled at the
        request of the insured no refund of the premium paid
         in respect of this Endorsement will be allowed.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions, conditions and
     limitations of this Policy.

43. IMT. 40. LEGAL LIABILITY TO PAID DRIVER AND/
   OR CONDUCTOR AND/OR CLEANER EMPLOYED IN
   CONNECTION WITH THE OPERATION OF MOTOR
    VEHICLE. (For buses, taxis and motorized three/four
    wheelers under commercial vehicles tariff)

     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
       it is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding
    anything contained herein to the contrary the insurer
     shall indemnify insured against his legal liability under
    the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923 and subsequent
   amendments  of  that Act  prior  to  the date  of  this
    endorsement, the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 or at Common
   Law in respect of personal injury to any paid driver and/
    or conductor and/or cleaner whilst engaged in the service
    of the insured in such occupation in connection with the
    vehicle insured and will in addition be responsible for all
    costs and expenses incurred with its written consent.
   The premium to be calculated and paid while taking
    insurance of the vehicle concurred at the rate of `50/- per
     driver and/or conductor and/or cleaner.
    Provided always that:-
         I.   This Endorsement does not indemnify the insured
         in respect of any liability in cases where the insured
        holds or subsequently effects with any insurer or
       Group of Underwriters a Policy of Insurance in respect
         of liability as herein defined for his general employees.
        II.  The insured shall take reasonable precautions to
        prevent accidents and shall comply with all statutory
         obligations.
        III. The insured shall keep a record of the name of each
         driver  cleaner conductor  or person employed  in
        loading and/or unloading and the amount of wages
        salary and other earnings paid to such employees
       and shall at all times allow the insurer to inspect such
         record.
      IV.  In the event of the Policy being cancelled at the
        request of the insured no refund of the premium paid
         in respect of this Endorsement will be allowed.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this Policy except so far as necessary to
   meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.

44. IMT. 41. MOTOR TRADE POLICY - CLASS ‘F’ - ROAD
    RISK ONLY
       It  is hereby declared and agreed that notwithstanding
    anything contained herein to the contrary that in respect of
    any new vehicle and/or chassis bearing a Trade Certificate
   Number  specified  in  the  Schedule  of  the  policy,the
    Geographical Area for the purpose of this Policy shall be as
    defined hereunder and not as stated in the Schedule hereto.
    Geographical Area Under Section  II - (i). INDIA Under all
    other Sections - Within a radius of ...* kilometers from the
    insured’s address as stated in the Schedule hereto.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
    * To insert ‘80’ or ‘120’ as opted for by insured and
   premium paid accordingly.

45. IMT.   42.  PRIVATE  CARRIERS  (Goods  Carrying
    Commercial Vehicles Only)
    Notwithstanding anything  to  the  contrary contained
    herein it is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer
     shall not be liable for any loss or damage to the vehicle
    insured and/or for any third party  liability  in respect
    thereof if at the time of accident the vehicle insured under
     this policy is carrying goods not belonging to the insured
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this policy.
    Article II. NOTE: For Liability only Policies delete the words
     “for any loss or damage to the vehicle insured and/or”
46. IMT. 43. THEFT AND CONVERSION RISK
    Notwithstanding anything  to  the  contrary contained
    herein it is hereby understood and agreed in this Policy
     in consideration of the payment of additional premium @
   1.50% of IDV, Clause  ii (b) (1) of Endorsement IMT35 is
    hereby deemed to be deleted.
       It is further understood and agreed that the indemnity
     in respect of Theft and/ or Conversion by the hirer is
    applicable only in case of Theft and/or Conversion of the
     entire vehicle.
       It is further understood and agreed that No Claim Bonus
     will not be applicable to the additional premium charged
    hereunder.
47. MT. 44. INDEMNITY TO HIRER - PACKAGE POLICY
    (Negligence of the Owner or Hirer)
       It is hereby declared and agreed that in consideration of
   payment of an additional premium of `........ the Insurer will
    indemnify any hirer of the Vehicle insured against loss,
   damage and liability as defined in this Policy arising in
    connection with the Vehicle insured while let on hire.
    Provided that any such hirer shall as though he/she were
    the insured observe fulfill and be subject to the terms,
    exceptions, conditions and limitations of this policy in so
     far as they apply.
48. IMT. 45. INDEMNITY TO HIRER - LIABILITY ONLY POLICY
    (Negligence of the Owner or Hirer)
    Negligence of the Hirer It is hereby declared and agreed
    that in consideration of payment of an additional premium
    of `.......the Insurer will indemnify any hirer of the Motor
    Vehicle against liability as defined in this Policy arising in
    connection with the Motor Vehicle while let on hire.
    Provided that any such hirer shall as though he were
    the Insured observe fulfill and be subject to the terms,
    exceptions, conditions and limitations of this Policy in so
     far as they apply.
49.  IMT. 46. LEGAL LIABILITY TO PASSENGERS EXCLUDING
    LIABILITY FOR ACCIDENTS TO EMPLOYEES OF THE
   INSURED ARISING OUT OF AND IN COURSE OF THEIR
   EMPLOYMENT (Applicable to Ambulance/Hearses under
     class D of Commercial vehicles and to Motor Trade vehicles)
     In consideration of an additional premium of  `... and
    notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained
     in Section  II-I (C) but subject otherwise to the terms
    exceptions conditions and limitations of this policy the
     insurer will indemnify the insured against liability at Law
     for compensation (including legal costs of any claimant) for
    death of or bodily injury to any person other than a person
    excluded under Section II-I (B) being carried in or upon or
    entering or mounting or alighting from the vehicle insured.
    Provided always that in the event of an accident occurring
    whilst the vehicle insured is carrying more than the number
    of persons mentioned in the Schedule hereto as being the
    licensed carrying capacity of that vehicle in addition to the
    conductor if any then the insured shall repay to the insurer
    ratable proportion of the total amount which would be
    payable by the insurer by reason of this endorsement if
    not more than the said number of persons were carried in
    the vehicle insured.
    Provided further that in computing the number of persons
     for the purpose of this endorsement any three children
    not exceeding 15 years of age will be reckoned as two
    persons and any child in arms not exceeding 3 years of
   age will be disregarded.
    Provided also that the provisions of condition 3 of the
    policy are also applicable to a claim or series of claims
    under this endorsement.
    Provided further that in the event of policy being cancelled
    at the request of the insured no refund of premium paid in
    respect of this endorsement will be allowed.
    Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
     limitations of this Policy.
50.  IMT. 47. MOBILE CRANES/DRILLING RIGS/MOBILE PLANTS/
    EXCAVATORS/ NAVVIES/SHOVELS/GRABS/RIPPERS
       It is hereby declared and agreed notwithstanding anything
    to the contrary contained in this Policy that in respect of
    the vehicle insured * the Insurer shall be under no liability
         I.  Under Section  I of this Policy in respect of loss or
      damage resulting from overturning arising out of the
        operation as a tool of such vehicle or of plant forming
        part of such vehicle or attached thereto except for loss
        or damage arising directly from  fire, explosion, self
         ignition or lightning or burglary housebreaking or theft.
        II.  Under Section II except so far as is necessary to meet
        the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, in
        respect of liability incurred by the insured arising out
         of the operation as a tool of such vehicle or of plant
        forming part of such vehicle or attached thereto.
    N. B.: Omit paragraph (a) for :-
         I.   Liability only Policies.
        II.  Package Policies where an additional premium has
       been paid for inclusion of damage by overturning.
   NOTE  : * Insert make, number or some other means of
     identification.
   Where a premium reduction  is allowed for exclusion
    of damage when in use as a tool of trade omit from
    paragraph (a) (the words ‘resulting from overturning’ and
    ‘except for loss’ or ‘theft’.
51. IMT. 48. AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY VEHICLES
   AND  OTHER  MISCELLANEOUS  VEHICLES  WITH
   TRAILERS ATTACHED
    Extended Cover
       It is hereby declared and agreed that in consideration of an
    additional premium of `.................., the indemnity provided
    by this Policy shall apply in respect of any trailer (including
    Agricultural Implements such as Ploughs, Harrows and the
     like) described in the under noted Schedule of trailers as
    though it were a vehicle CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408
    described in the Schedule and had set against it in the
    Schedule the value set against  it in the under noted
    Schedule of trailers.
    Provided that the Insurer shall be under no liability under
    Section I of the Policy in respect of breakage of any part
    of the agricultural trailer or implements caused by ground
    obstructions.
    Schedule of Trailers
    * Description Insured’s Declared value (IDV)
    * Insert make, number or some other means of identification.
    Threshing Machines, Drums, Bailing Machines, Trusses
   and Tiers must be identified as such.
    Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions
   and limitations of this Policy.
   NOTE : In the case of Liability only Policies, the Endorsement
   must be suitably amended.
52. IMT. 49. EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY TO THE PUBLIC
   WORKING RISK (Except as required by the Motor
    Vehicle Act, 1988)
       It is hereby declared and agreed that except so far as is
    necessary to meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicles
     Act, 1988, the Insurer shall be under no liability under Section
        II of this Policy in respect of liability incurred by the Insured
     arising out of the operation as a tool of the Motor Vehicle
    or of plant forming part of the Motor Vehicle or attached
     thereto.
53. IMT. 50. CINEMA FILM RECORDING AND PUBLICITY
   VANS
       It is hereby understood and agreed that not withstanding
    anything to the contrary contained in this Policy, the
    insurer shall be under no liability in respect of loss or
   damage to cinematic photographic or sound equipment
    costumes or any other technical property fixtures and
     fittings on the Motor Vehicle, unless they are firmly and
    permanently fixed to the body of the vehicle and are not
    detachable from time to time.
54.  IMT.  51. MOBILE SHOPS/CANTEENS AND MOBILE
    SURGERIES/ DISPENSARIES
       It is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding
    anything to the contrary contained in this Policy the
    insurer shall be under no liability in respect of *I. Loss of or
   damage to ..... ** on the motor vehicle.
         I. Death of or bodily injury to or illness of any person
      caused by or through or in connection with or arising
      from
        a. Poisoning of any kind or foreign or deleterious
         matter in food or drink
        b. Anything harmful in the condition of any goods
          supplied at or from the motor vehicle or the defective
          condition of the container of such goods
         c. Anything harmful in the condition of any goods
          supplied at or from the motor vehicle or defective in
        any treatment given at or from the motor vehicle
    Notes:-
    * For Liability only Policies omit provision(a)
    ** I.    In the case of ‘Mobile Shops and Canteens’ insert
           the words ‘Utensils or stock-in-trade’ and omit (iii)
            II.   In  the case  of  ‘Mobile  Surgeries/Dispensaries
            insert the words ‘Surgical instruments medical
          appliances or supplies’
55. IMT. 52. EXCLUSION OF DAMAGE WHILE IN USE AS A
   TOOL OF TRADE
       It is hereby declared and agreed that except so far as is
    necessary to meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicles
    Act, 1988 the insurer shall be under no liability under
    Section II of this Policy in respect of liability incurred by the
    insured arising out of the operation as a tool of the motor
    vehicle or of plant forming part of the vehicle insured or
    attached thereto.
56.  IMT. 53. SPECIFIED ATTACHMENTS (Special Type Vehicles)
       It  is  hereby  declared and  agreed  that  while any
    attachment in the under noted. ‘Schedule of attachments’
     is attached to the Motor Vehicle or is detached and out
    of use the indemnity provided by this Policy shall apply
     in respect of any such attachment as though it were the
    Motor Vehicle and had set against it in the Schedule the
    value set against it in the under noted.
    Schedule of Attachments
    Schedule of Attachments
    * Description Insured’s Declared Value (IDV)
    *  Insert  make,  number  or some  other means  of
     identification.
   NOTE :
     In the case of pedestrian controlled tractors insert in
    Description’ in the Schedule of Attachments ‘any standard
    attachment of the ... Tractor supplied by the makers’...
57. IMT. 54. MOBILE PLANT - INCLUSION OF LIABILITY TO
   THE PUBLIC WORKING RISK WHERE TOOL OF TRADE
     IS USED ONLY FOR WORK PERFORMED IN OR UPON
   THE VEHICLE OR TRAILER
       It is hereby declared and agreed that except so far as is
    necessary to meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicles
    Act, 1988, the Insurer shall be under no liability under
    Section II of this Policyin respect of liability arising out of :-
         I. The explosion of any vessel under pressure being
       part of plant attached to or forming part of the Motor
        Vehicle.
        II. The operation other than in or upon the Motor Vehicle
       forming part of or attached to
        III. The Motor Vehicle.

58. IMT. 55. MOBILE PLANT - INCLUSION OF LIABILITY TO
   THE PUBLIC WORKING RISK (All Other Cases)
       It is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding
    anything to the contrary contained in this Policy the insurer
     shall be under no liability under Section II in respect of
         I. Death injury or damage caused by or resulting from
         a. Subsidence flooding or water pollution.
         b. Damage to pipes or cables arising out of the
          operation as a tool of the vehicle insured or of any
           plant forming part of vehicle insured or attached
            thereto.
        II. Damage to property resulting from the manufacture
       construction alteration repair or treatment of such
       property by the insured.
        III. Death injury or damage caused by or through property
      on which the insured has carried out any process
        of manufacture, construction alteration or repair or
       treatment.
       It is further understood and agreed that except so far as is
    necessary to meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicles
    Act 1988, the insurer shall be under no liability under
    Section II of this Policy in respect of liability incurred by the
    insured arising out of the explosion of any vessel under
    pressure being part of plant attached to or forming part of
    the vehicle insured.

59. IMT. 56. TRAILERS (Road Transit Only)
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it
      is hereby understood and agreed that insurance by Section
        I and  II of this Policy shall extend to the Motor Vehicle
    (mechanically propelled or otherwise) attached to the Motor
     Vehiclefor the purpose of being towed Provided always that
     1. The insurer shall not be liable under this Policy in
        respect of damage to property conveyed by the towed
         vehicle.
     2.  The insurer shall not be liable under this Policy in
        respect of accident loss damage and/or liability caused
        sustained or incurred whilst the vehicle insured is towing
      a greater number of vehicles than is permitted by law.

60. IMT. 57. MOTORISED TWO WHEELERS (Motor Trade
    Only)
       It  is hereby declared and agreed that Item 5 in the
    Schedule to this Policy is deemed to have been deleted
   and the following substituted there for :-
   The Motor Vehicle : Any Motorised Two Wheeler (including
    sidecar attached thereto) the property of the insured
    or insured’s custody or control whilst bearing Trade
     Certificate No...........
       It is further declared and agreed that the words ‘Motor
     Vehicle’ Wherever they appear are deemed to have been
    deleted and substituted by the words. Motorised Two
    Wheeler...
    Subject otherwise to theterms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
61. IMT. 58. LOAN OR HIRE OF MOTOR CARS, MOTORISED
   TWO WHEELERS, MOTOR VEHICLES TO CUSTOMERS
   BY MOTOR DEALERS (Motor Trade Only)
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein
       it is hereby understood and agreed that the Motor Car(s),
    Motorised Two wheelers, Motor Vehicle(s) described in the
    Schedule hereto may be let out on loan or hire to insured’s
    customers when their vehicle(s) is/are under repair with
    the insured. Provided that the insured agrees to record in
   a register for the purposes of this policy the date of loan
    or hire of such vehicle(s), its Make and Registered Number
     (or Chassis Number  if the loaned/hired vehicle itself is
    not registered) and the duration of the loan or hire and
    to submit to the insurer within one month of the expiry of
    each period of insurance a statement of the total number
    of days each loaned/hired vehicle was in use.
    Provided also that the premium  for  this Policy  shall
   be subject to adjustment on expiry of each period of
    insurance.

    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
62. IMT. 59. PRIVATE USE OF VEHICLE BY MEMBER/DIRECTOR/
   EMPLOYEE OF THE INSURED (Motor Trade only)
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
    of `....... and notwithstanding anything contained herein to
    the contrary it is hereby understood and agreed that this
    Policy shall be operative whilst the vehicle insured is being
    used by the insured or with the permission of the insured
    by a Member Director or employee of the insured for social
    domestic or pleasure purposes.
    Whilst the vehicle insured is being so used the insurer will
     in terms of and subject to the limitations of and for the
    purpose of Section II of this policy treat as though he were
    the insured person using the vehicle insured provided that
    such person :
     1. Is not entitled to indemnity under any other policy;
     2. Shall as though he/she were the insured observe fulfill
      and be subject to the terms provisions conditions and
      endorsements of this policy in so far as they apply;
     3. Has not been refused any Motor Vehicle Insurance or
       continuance thereof by any insurer.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.

63.  IMT.  60. DEMONSTRATION  - DRIVING EXTENSION
    (Applicable to Motor Trade Policies Only)
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
     of `.................. and notwithstanding anything to the contrary
    contained herein it is hereby understood and agreed that the
     policy shall be operative whilst the vehicles are being driven
     for the purpose of demonstration by person(s) not in the
    employment of the insured provided he/she/they is/are driving
    with the insured’s permission and is/are accompanied by the
    insured or by any person(s) in the insured’s employment.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.

64. IMT. 61. TUITION - DRIVING EXTENSION (Applicable only
    to Motor Trade Policies issued on named driver basis.)
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
    of `.................. and notwithstanding anything to the contrary
       it is hereby understood and agreed that the policy shall be
    operative whilst the vehicles insured are being used for
    purpose of demonstration or tuition by any other person,
    provided he/she is driving with the insured’s permission
   and is accompanied by a named driver mentioned in the
    policy Schedule.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.

65. IMT. 62. DELETION OF 50% LIMITATION CLAUSE IN
   RESPECT OF DAMAGE TO TYRES (Applicable to Motor
    Trade Road Transit Risks Policies only)
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
    of  `..................  it is hereby understood and agreed that
    the words ...when the liability of the Insurer is limited to
   50% of the cost of the replacement ..... are hereby deleted
    fromproviso (b) of Section I (1) of the policy.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of the policy.

66. IMT. 63. RESTRICTION OF COVER TO LIABILITY RISKS
   ONLY (Motor Trade Internal Risks Policy)
       It is hereby understood and agreed that
     1.  Section I and II(2) (i) and the word ‘other’ in Section
           II(2) (ii) of this Policy in the Schedule to this Policy are
      deemed to be cancelled and
     2.  The Insurer shall not be liable in respect of damage to
        the Motor Vehicle or its accessories.

67. IMT. 64. OPEN-AIR CAR PARKS (Motor Trade Internal
    Risks Only)
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium,vit
      is hereby understood and agreed that for the purpose of
     this Policy the Premises shall be deemed to include the car
    park at ......* superficial area not exceeding .....**
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.
    *To insert location
    **To insert appropriate area

68. IMT. 65. WORK AWAY FROM PREMISES (Motor Trade
     Internal Risks Only)
     In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
       it is hereby understood and agreed that the premises
    are deemed to include any place at which the insured is
    performing work not being premises under the control of
    the insured provided that the insurer shall not be liable in
    respect of injury or damage resulting from the driving of
    the vehicle insured in a public place in INDIA within the
   meaning of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
    Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
    exceptions of this Policy.

CHAPTER 4 - Limitations as to Use
   The Policy covers use of the vehicle for any purpose other
    than: Hire or Reward, Carriage of goods (other than
    samples of personal luggage), Organised racing, Pace
    Making, Reliability trails or Speed testing, any purpose in
    Connection with Motor Trade.

CHAPTER 5 - Driver’s Clause
   Any person including the insured: Provided that a person
    driving holds an effective driving license at the time of the
    accident and is not disqualified from holding or obtaining
    such a license. Provided also that the person holding an
     effective learner’s license may also drive the vehicle and
    that such a person satisfies the requirements of Rule 3 of
    the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989.

CHAPTER 6 - Claim Procedure
    Your Responsibilities in a Third-Party Claim:
    •  Ensure the accident victim gets immediate medical
        help at the nearest hospital.
    •   Notify us about the accident, including details of those
         injured or deceased.
    •  Report the incident to the nearest police station by
          filing an FIR.
    •   For additional support, you can contact the Nodal
         Officer in your state here
    https://www.icicilombard.com/docs/default-source/
    default-document-library/motor-third-party-claims--
    statewise-nodal-officer-details.pdf

How to File a Motor Personal Accident Claim:
    •    If you’ve been in an accident with your insured vehicle,
          call us at 18002666 for claims related to accidental
       death or permanent total disability.
    Post verification of incident and all documents in place as
    per policy terms – Claim will be paid to Insured/Nominee
    account details.

CHAPTER 7 - IL Smart Assist
    UIN: IRDAN115RP0013V01200102/A0117V01202526
    In consideration of payment of an additional premium of
      `…...........… by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared
    that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
    in the Policy and subject to Policy terms and conditions,
    the Company hereby undertakes to provide the Insured,
   upon  their request, the following assistance services/
    covers arising out of an accident, breakdown, measures
initiated for mitigation of breakdown/ accident or distress
of the insured during travel in insured vehicle  whilst the
normal and intended use of the insured vehicle during the
Policy Period as mentioned in Policy Schedule, in any area
where the Company has its presence through its network
garages or through the network of the service provider:
Customer can choose one or more than one listed service
available for the add-on.
1.   Legal Assistance: Subject to the terms, conditions,
     exclusions, limitations of this Policy, and with prior
    consent of the Company, legal expenses incurred by
     the Insured Person, for services rendered by the Legal
     Practitioner in connection with bail application of
     insured and custody of insured vehicle involved in an
     accident will be covered. The liability of the Company
      will be limited up to sum insured of Legal Assistance
    Add-on as mentioned in policy schedule.
    Legal Expenses shall not cover:
     a.   Bail bond amount paid by the Insured.
     b.  Costs arising from disputes between the Insured
        Person and the Legal Practitioner regarding the
        terms or fees of their engagement.
      c.  Any fines, penalties, or damages awarded against
         the Insured Person in connection with the accident.
     d.  Legal costs related to any criminal prosecution
       where the Insured Person is found guilty.
      e.  Expenses for legal services that are unrelated to
         the accident or the release of the vehicle.
        f.  Any legal costs incurred before the occurrence of the
         accident or without Company prior written consent.
     g.  Costs  of  legal  representation  in  relation  to
         claims made by or against third parties unless
          specifically covered under the policy.
Exclusions:
1.   For  any  legal  action  that  is  false,  fraudulent,
    exaggerated, or based on misrepresentations made
    by the Insured Person.
2.  Where at the time of the insured incident, the Insured
     Person:
    •  Was disqualified from driving;
    •   Did not hold a valid driving license to operate the
         insured vehicle;
    •   Failed  to  comply  with  laws  governing  the
        ownership or use of the vehicle.
3.   For   deliberate,    wilful,   or   intentional   non-
    compliance with any statutory provisions or judicial
    pronouncements.
4.   In respect of a claim made or considered against the
    Company or third-party claim under the same policy.
5.     If the Insured Person is driving the insured vehicle
    under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or any other
     intoxicating  substances,  the  claim  shall  not be
     admissible. Additionally, no expenses will be covered
     for any other person driving the insured vehicle under
    such influence, nor will expenses related to the release
     of the vehicle in such circumstances be covered.
6.   For  any  claims  arising  from,  based  upon,  or
     attributable to a wrongful act or circumstance known
         to the Insured Person, or that the Insured Person
        reasonably should have known, prior to the inception
        date of this policy.
    Conditions:
    1.  The Coverage shall not apply to vehicles used for
         racing, rallying, motorsports, or any similar activities,
        nor to instances where the vehicle is operated in
         violation of applicable laws in force at the time of use.
    2.  The Coverage shall not be available for Acts of
      God  events,  including  natural  disasters  or other
        unforeseeable events beyond human control.
    3.  The Coverage will terminate immediately, and the
        Insured Person shall be required to refund all legal
       expenses paid under the policy  if the accident  is
         conclusively proven to have been caused deliberately
       by such Insured Person
2.  Emergency Medical Expenses (EME)
   The Company  will be  liable  for the below mentioned
   Emergency medical expenses incurred for the treatment
    of bodily injury/injuries sustained by insured and/or any
   occupant of the vehicle in direct relation with insured vehicle
   The injury/injuries sustained in an accident to be whilst
   mounting and dismounting from or driving or travelling in
    the insured vehicle caused by violent, accidental external
   and visible means requiring necessary medical treatment
    in any Hospital or any clinic or nursing home.
    1.   Accidental Hospitalisation – The Company shall
        reimburse the accidental medical expenses incurred
       by the insured and/or any other occupant(s) travelling
          in the insured vehicle (as per the registered seating
         capacity) towards the treatment of bodily  injury
        sustained in an accident involving the insured vehicle.
       The aggregate liability of the Company under the said
        cover for all the occupants will be limited up to the
      Sum Insured mentioned against the said cover in the
         Policy Schedule.
    2.  Ambulance Cover – The Company shall:
          a.  Arrange ground medical transportation by an
           ambulance  service provider  to transport the
            Insured Person and/or any other occupant(s)
              travelling in the insured vehicle from the site of
            accident to the nearest Hospital or any clinic or
            nursing home for necessary medical treatment
           as available in that particular city/location. This
                is merely a telephonic assistance service and is
             subject to availability of the service provider in
            the location of the accident.
            There are no restrictions on the number of times the
             telephonic ambulance assistance can be availed.
          b.  And also reimburse the expenses incurred by
            the insured and/or any occupant(s) for hiring an
           ambulance for such transportation. The aggregate
                 liability of the Company towards the cost of hiring
          an ambulance for all the injured occupants will be
              limited up to the Sum Insured mentioned against
            the said cover in the Policy Schedule.
    3.   Hospital  Daily  Cash  –   If  insured  and/or  any
        occupant(s) travelling in the insured vehicle, suffers
       an Injury due to an accident that occurs during the
     Policy Period and which solely and directly requires
     the  injured  occupant(s)  travelling  in the  insured
     vehicle to be Hospitalized, then The Company will
    pay the daily amount specified in the Policy Schedule
    against this cover for each continuous and completed
    day of Hospitalization of the injured person(s).
    The Company shall not be liable to pay the daily
    amount for more than the maximum number of days
    as specified in the Policy Schedule, during the Policy
     Period. Further the number of injured to whom the
     claim will be paid under the cover will be limited to the
    number as opted by the insured and duly mentioned
    under the policy Schedule.
    The Company’s liability to make any payment under
     this cover shall be beyond per event policy excess,
     stated in the Policy Schedule, as applicable.
4.   Tele Consultation - If insured and/or any occupant(s)
     travelling in the insured vehicle, requires any medical
    emergency assistance that occurs during the Policy
     Period, they can avail Telephonic/Virtual Consultation
    through mobile application specified in the Policy
     Certificate.
     Telephonic/Virtual Consultation service can be availed
    as many times as mentioned in policy schedule.
        (i)    It  is agreed and understood that the Insured
         Person/occupant(s) is/are free to choose whether
         or not to obtain the expert opinion, and if obtained
        then whether or not to act on it;
        (ii)  Under this Benefit, We are only providing the
         Insured  Person/occupant(s)  with  access  to
         consultations or opinion and we shall not be
       deemed to substitute the Insured
         Person’s/occupant(s) visit or consultation to an
        independent Medical Practitioner.
    Provided always that
     1.  Such claims are admitted by the Company under
         Section I – “Loss or Damage to the Vehicles Insured”
          of the Policy, except for Tele Consultation service.
     2.  Claim under  this add-on  is intimated to the
       Company within 5 days of occurrence of incident,
        however, this condition is not applicable when
         there is a delay in intimation due to unavoidable
         circumstances.
     3.  Accident has occurred in direct connection with
         insured vehicle whilst driving the vehicle including
        mounting into/ dismounting from or traveling in
         the insured vehicle.
     4.  The limit on the number of claims that can be
      made and the aggregate  liability to be paid
         during the policy period will be restricted to the
      sum insured mentioned against each of the
         coverage’s separately.
     5.  The benefit under this section is NOT payable
          in case the number  of persons/ passengers
         traveling in the insured vehicle is more than the
       number specified in the registration certificate
          valid at the time of occurrence of such accident.
     6.  Submission  of   original   Bills    /  Reports    /
         Prescriptions/ Indoor case papers and Hospital
    discharge  summary  shall  be  required  for
    reimbursement of all such claims.
Definition for the purpose of this service:
Hospital/Nursing Home/Clinic means any institution
established for inpatient care and day care treatment
of  illness and  / or  injuries and which has been
registered as a hospital/nursing home/clinic with the
local authorities under the Clinical Establishments
(Registration and Regulations) Act 2010 or under
enactments specified under the Schedule of Section
56(1) of the said Act.
Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment,
tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part of a stay
in hospital which:
-    is  required  for  the medical management  of
    the injury suffered by the insured or any other
    occupant travelling in the insured vehicle;
-   must not exceed the level of care necessary to
    provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical
    care in scope, duration, or intensity;
-   must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner;
-   must conform  to the  professional standards
    widely accepted in international medical practice
    or by the medical community in India.
“Pre-existing disease (PED)” means any condition,
ailment, injury or disease:
a)  That is/are diagnosed by a physician not more than
   36 months prior to the date of commencement of
    the policy issued by the insurer; or
b)  For which medical advice or treatment was
   recommended by, or received from, a physician,
    not more than 36 months prior to the date of
   commencement of the policy. “Telephonic/Virtual
    Consultation”  shall mean  any  consultations
    provided by  Medical  Practitioners/Healthcare
    Professionals  through  a   virtual  mode  of
    communication, such as via audio, video, online
     portal, chat or mobile application for routine
    health query or second opinion.
Specific Exclusions:
a.  Any expenses related to a sickness, disease or
    medical disorder not directly consequential to
    accident.
b.  Any expenses related to pre-existing diseases or
    medical disorders, except for Tele consultation service
c.  Any physiotherapy treatment.
d.  Any expense not supported by an original and valid
       bill / receipt and related prescription of the attending
    Medical Practitioner / Hospital / Nursing Home.
e.  Any expenses for treatment commenced after 3
    days from the date of accident.
f.   Not more than sum-insured as mentioned in the
    schedule during per policy tenure.
g.  Any expense arising or resulting from or traceable
    to intentional self injury, suicide or attempted
    suicide physical defect or infirmity.
h.  Any expense arising or resulting from or traceable
             to an accident happening due to the influence of
             intoxicating liquor or drugs.
        Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions condition &
         limitations of the policy.
3.  Travel Inconvenience: In the event of the Insured vehicle
    getting immobilized due to an accident or breakdown
   caused by or arising out of the use of the insured vehicle
    while travelling to Airport/Railway station, company will
   compensate insured’s expenses up to the amount specified
    in the Policy Schedule towards Air /Train ticket and Hotel
   expenses which is unused or forfeited within 24 hours of
    travel ticket cancellation.
4.  Convenience Service: Company  will provide range of
    benefits that will enhance the protection of insured vehicle
   such as vehicle preventive maintenance service, pickup &
   drop for vehicle maintenance servicing and vehicle accident
    or breakdown related repair, wheel alignment, and such
    other allied services designed to mitigate and prevent risk.
   Such services may be provided by the Company through
     its network garages or service providers and may be
    offered as a bundled service to the Insured.
    Service Limitations as stated below:
    Service can be availed maximum twice during the policy tenure
5.  Wallet Assistance: In event of loss of wallet of insured
    during usage of insured vehicle / travelling in the insured
    vehicle during an accident or breakdown caused by or
    arising out of the use of the insured vehicle, insurance
   company will assist in below services:
    a)  Immediate cash assistance up to ` 5000 to meet your
       expenses
    b)   Cashless settlement of your hotel bills and assistance
          in booking return tickets
    c)   Assistance in Blocking of debit/credit cards
    d)   Assistance in Police FIR for lost wallet/id cards/debit
         cards/credit cards
   Provided always that-
    a)  There is no involvement of fraud practices
    b)  Claim is being availed once during the policy tenure
    c)   Required cash or cashless settlement of hotel bills
          will be paid back/ transferred by the Insured to the
      Company  or Company  representative’s  account,
        within the stipulated time period as communicated to
        the Insured during the incident or maximum within 2
       days of the incident.
6.  Loss of DL/RC: In case where the insured or insured’s
    driver suffers a loss of valid original Driving License and/
    or the valid original Registration Certificate during travel
    in insured vehicle due to an accident or breakdown caused
   by or arising out of the use of the Insured Vehicle, Company
   would provide re-imbursement up to  ` 5,000 or actual
   expenses incurred whichever is less to obtain duplicate
    license and/or Registration Certificate.
   Provided always that:
    a)   First Information report filed with Police authority
         (within 7 days of documents loss) stating loss of
         Driver’s License and/or Original Vehicle Registration
         Certificate must be submitted to company.
    b)  The claim is payable only once during the Policy Period.
    c)   In case  of  driver’s  driving  license  loss,  Insured
       must prove driver’s employment for more than 30
       days during the Policy Period with submission of
       Employment records/ contracts, Salary certificate.
    d)  The Insured should take  all reasonable steps to
        safeguard Vehicle Registration Copy and Driving
        License from loss.
7.  Arrangement of PUC document: In case where insured
   has lost PUC certificate during travel / usage of insured
    vehicle, the Company would facilitate arrangement for
    providing PUC  Certificate. However, company would
    intimate the Insured of all charges payable to the vendor
   which shall be borne by the Insured directly.
8.  Sports Equipment Cover: In case the Insured Vehicle
    contains  Sports  equipment  as  specified below and
    the same is damaged due to an accident caused by or
    arising out of the use of the insured vehicle, the Company
   would cover the accidental damage by offering repair or
   replacement or reimbursement of damaged equipment’s.
   Provided always that:
   •    All categories of Sports equipments as mentioned
       below viz, Adventure sports, Endurance sports and
       Hobby sports stands covered.
         a)  Adventure  sports  –  Mountain/Water/Racing
            sports equipments
         b)  Endurance  sports  -  Trekking/Cycling/Racing
           shoes/Speed skating equipments
          c)  Hobby  sports  –  Football/Baseball/Volleyball
           equipments
   •   Any accidental damage to sports equipments as a
         result of accident of Covered vehicle;
   •    This benefit is subject to a maximum of ` 5000 (five
        thousand);
   •    This benefit is offered only once during the Policy Period
   •    Intimation of claim has to be within 24 hours from the
        date & time of occurrence of accident.
   •   Any contractual liability is excluded from the scope of
        cover
9.  Location and delivery of spare parts: In the event of
    accident or breakdown of the vehicle, caused by or arising
    out of the use of the insured vehicle, the Company will
    assist in locating and delivering the spare parts when it
     is not possible for the local repairer to obtain them in the
    city of repair. Provided that the parts are available within
   Geographical limits. All such charges for purchase of spare
    parts would be borne by the Insured, subject to policy
   terms and conditions.
10. Pet cover:
    In case the Insured Vehicle is occupied by Pet, the Company
    will assist in providing relevant Pet health Assistance for
   any injury or medical expenses caused by or arising due to
   an accident or breakdown or arising in direct relation with
    insured vehicle
    Subject to terms as below:
   •   The Company will assist in arranging for consultation
        during the road trip by a Veterinary Doctor.
   •    This benefit is subject to a maximum of `5000 (five
        thousand)
   •   Any contractual liability is excluded from the scope of
         cover.
11. Loss of Personal Belongings:
   Plan A
   The Company hereby undertakes to indemnify the Insured,
   upto an amount as stated in the Schedule, for the loss of his
    personal belongings on account of breakdown /damage to
    or theft from the Insured vehicle. Provided always that:
    1.  A deductible of ` 500 would be applicable for each
        claim under this add on
    2.  A First Investigation Report (FIR) is registered with
        the Police for such loss
    3.  The Company would not be liable for:
          a.  Any loss  in open top or convertible vehicles
            unless the belongings are kept in the locked boot
          b.  Any   loss   of  money,   securities,  cheques,
          bank  drafts,  credit  or  debit  cards,  jewellery,
           gems,  stones,  contact  lens,  glasses,  travel
               tickets, watches,  laptops,  mobiles,  valuables,
            manuscripts, paintings, work of art.
           c.  Any loss of the personal belongings unless the
            Insured vehicle is locked and all doors & windows
            are properly fastened while unattended.
          d.  Any loss of or damage to belongings carried in
            connection with any trade or business
          e.  Any theft from vehicles parked in no-parking
           zone and from unattended vehicle after accident
             or breakdown
               f.  Any claim intimated to the Company after 30
           days of such loss.
   Plan B
   The Company hereby undertakes to indemnify the Insured,
   upto an amount as stated in the Schedule, for the loss of
    his personal belongings, including mobile phones and/or
    laptops, on account of breakdown/ damage to or theft
   from the Insured Vehicle. Provided always that:
    1.  A deductible of `500 would be applicable for each
        claim under this add on, except when the claim is
        being made only for mobile phones and/or laptops.
    2.  A First Investigation Report (FIR) is registered with
        the Police for such loss
    3.  The Company would not be liable for:
          a.  Any loss in open top or convertible vehicles
            unless the belongings are kept in the locked boot
          b.  Any loss of money, securities, cheques, bank drafts,
               credit  or  debit  cards,  jewellery, gems,  stones,
             contact  lens,  glasses,  travel  tickets,  watches,
             valuables, manuscripts, paintings, work of art.
           c.  Any loss of the personal belongings unless the
            Insured vehicle is locked and all doors & windows
            are properly fastened while unattended.
          d.  Any loss of or damage to belongings carried in
            connection with any trade or business
          e.  Any theft from vehicles parked in no-parking
           zone and from unattended vehicle after accident
             or breakdown
               f.  Any claim for a laptop/mobile phone not declared
             at the time of Policy issuance.
          g.  Any claim intimated to the Company after 30
           days of such loss. Any amount more than the
           market value of the mobile phones or laptops as
            stated at the time of Policy issuance, deducted
             appropriately for depreciation as per the Section
          32 of Income Tax Act.
12. Battery Charging Support for EVs: In the event of the
    Insured vehicle being an Electronic Vehicle is immobilized
   due to an accident or breakdown caused by or arising
    out of the use of the insured vehicle, the Company will
    assist the insured in having reliable access to charging
    infrastructure and assistance through app based/tele-
    calling/physical support in form of below services:
    a)   Self-troubleshoot through tele calling or intelligent
        Chabot/mobile based support
    b)  Video chat instantly with trained  Electric Vehicle
         specialists to get immediate resolution
    c)   Access to mobile charging services and there are no
       nearby charging stations.
    d)  Support for finding nearby public charging stations
13. Vehicle Break-down cover: In an event of an Insured vehicle
    being immobilized or malfunctioning due to any technical
   snag or defect developed in the parts, the company will
    provide Break down repair cover subject to the Sum insured
    separately mentioned in the schedule for this purpose.
    Conditions:
    1.  The defects should have developed due to normal
       and intended use of the vehicle.
    2.  Any defect attributable to manufacturing defect and /
         or part of any recall program will not be covered.
    3.  The  vehicle should have undergone regular and
         timely servicing / maintenance as recommended by
        the Manufacturer.
    4.  The repair should be pre-approved by the Company
         or its representative.
14. Loading/unloading/restoration   costs   in   case   of
   breakdown/accident of the vehicle carrying goods: In the
   event of the Insured vehicle being immobilized due to or
   rendered unfit for the purpose of driving on the road on
   account of breakdown or  accident, the Company would
    provide appropriate cost  for loading/unloading/shifting
    of goods to another vehicle or storage upto a maximum
   amount  of `50000/-or as  specified  in  the  schedule,
   towards labour /incidental charges provided always that
    appropriate proof of payment of these expenses is made
    available at the time of claim.
   Breakdown of vehicle shall carry waiting period of 2 hours.
    Accident of vehicle means the incident of Collision/Act of God
   (AOG)/RSMD (Riot, Storm, Malicious Damage) /STFI (Strom,
    Tempest, Flood, Inundation) which renders vehicle unfit for
    carrying the goods/merchandise and needs repair/restoration
    services. Restoration cost will have maximum time limit of
   3 days from the time of accident or breakdown subject to
   maximum of amount as mentioned in the Policy Schedule.
15. Towing on breakdown  / accident: In the event of the
    Insured vehicle being immobilized or rendered unfit for the
   purpose of driving on the road, the Company would provide
    appropriate towing services to the nearest garage (within
   a radius of 50 kms from the location of the breakdown or
    accident or as specified in the schedule), provided always
    that any charges for a distance beyond the one mentioned
    herein shall be borne by the Insured.
16. Breakdown support over phone: In the event of minor
   mechanical errors/faults/non-functioning of the Insured
    vehicle or any part thereof, the Company would provide
    the Insured with telephonic assistance to come up with
    solutions  for such minor mechanical errors/faults/non-
    functioning of the Insured vehicle.
17. Arrangement/Supply of fuel: In the event of the Insured
    vehicle being immobilized due to emptying of fuel tank, the
   Company would arrange for supply of up to five liters of
     fuel, at the location of the breakdown or accident. Provided
   always that all labour costs and conveyance costs would
   be borne by the Company and all expenses on fuel would
   be borne by the Insured.
18. Emptying of fuel tank: In the event of the fuel tank of the
    Insured vehicle being filled with a wrong type of fuel, the
   Company would arrange for emptying of fuel tank with the
    help of appropriate technicians and  if required, arrange
    for towing the Insured vehicle to nearest garage for the
   purpose of emptying the fuel tank, provided always that
     all charges towards the towing of the vehicle would be
   borne by the Insured.
19. Arrangement of keys: In the event of the Insured losing the
   keys of the Insured vehicle, the Company would arrange for
    pickup and delivery of the spare keys of the Insured vehicle to
    the place where the Insured vehicle is located. Alternatively,
    the Company would provide the service of unlocking the
    Insured vehicle with the help of vehicle technicians at
    the location of the Insured vehicle. Provided always that
     all labour and conveyance costs would be borne by the
   Company and the Insured would be required to submit an
    identity proof to prove his ownership of the Insured vehicle,
    before availing such service. Provided always that this
    service would be provided only within a range of 100 kms
   from the location where the loss has occurred.
20. Battery jump start: In the event of the Insured vehicle
   being immobilized due to a rundown battery, due to
    accident or breakdown the Company would arrange for
   a vehicle technician to jump start the Insured vehicle with
    appropriate means. Provided always that any cost of
    charging/replacement of battery would be borne by the
    Insured and all labour and conveyance costs, towards
    battery jump start assistance, would be borne by the
   Company
21. Message Relay: In the event of the Insured vehicle getting
    immobilized as a result of an accident or breakdown, the
   Company would arrange to send urgent message to the
    specified persons, as requested by the Insured, through
    available means of communication.
22. Flat  Tyre:  In the event of the Insured vehicle being
    immobilized due to a flat tyre the Company would assist
    the Insured by:
    a)   organizing for a vehicle technician to replace the flat
         tyre with the spare stepney tyre of the vehicle at the
         location of breakdown or in the event of repairs not
        being possible at the place of breakdown or accident.
    b)  by arranging to take the flat tyre to the nearest place
         of repair and delivering the tyre back to the place of
       breakdown & attaching it to the Insured vehicle.
    Provided always that any expenses on material/spare parts
   and any other incidental costs, if required while carrying out
    the repairs, would be borne by the Insured and the expenses
   on labour cost and conveyance cost, in relation to point (a)
   and (b) above, would be borne by the Company.
23. Minor Repairs: In the event of the Insured vehicle being
    immobilized due to a minor mechanical/electrical fault or
   minor accident, the Company would assist the Insured by
    sending a vehicle technician to the location of breakdown
    or accident to carry out the Minor Repairs as mentioned in
    policy schedule. Provided always that
    a)  The expenses on labour cost and conveyance cost
       would be borne by the Company
    b)   Minor Repairs, for the purpose of this add-on, would
       be defined as repairs which can be carried out at the
         location of breakdown/ accident or at the network
       garage of the company/ service provider, requiring
         limited spares.
24. Arrangement of rental vehicle: In the event of the Insured
    vehicle being immobilized due to a breakdown or accident,
    the Company would facilitate arrangement for alternative
   mode of conveyance, from the place of breakdown or
    accident, to the destination, as desired by the Insured at the
    time of breakdown/accident. The Company would intimate
    the Insured of all charges payable to the rental vehicle and
     all such charges would be borne by the Insured.
25. Arrangement of Accommodation: In the event of the
    Insured vehicle being immobilized due to a breakdown
    or accident the Company would facilitate arrangement
    for hotel accommodation in a place near the place of
    breakdown/accident. The Company would intimate the
    Insured of all charges payable for such accommodation
   and all such charges would be borne by the Insured.
26. Referring a Legal Advisor: In the event of an accident
    involving the Insured vehicle as a result of which the Insured
    requires the services of a legal advisor, the Company would
   arrange for the Insured the telephonic contact details
    of an appropriate legal advisor belonging to an area as
    requested by the Insured. Provided always that:
    a)  The accident has taken place at least 50 kms away
        from the Insured’s place of residence, as per the address
        declared by the Insured at the time of Policy issuance
    b)  The Company would intimate the Insured of  all
        charges payable for the services of such legal advisor
       and all such charges would be borne by the Insured.
27. Referring a Hospital: In the event of an accident involving
    the Insured vehicle as a result of which the Insured and/
    or any of the travelling passengers requires medical care,
    the Company would arrange for the Insured the telephonic
    contact details of an appropriate hospital near the location
    of accident. Provided always that the accident has taken
    place at least 50 kms away from the Insured’s place of
    residence, as per the address declared by the Insured at
    the time of Policy issuance.
28. Taxi Benefits: In the event of the Insured vehicle being
    immobilized due  to an  accident  or breakdown,  the
   Company shall provide free travel of the occupants of the
    Insured vehicles up to 50 kilometers. Provided always that:
    a)  The event has occurred 50kms away from the
         Insured’s place  of residence as declared by the
        Insured at the time of policy issuance.
    b)  Any charges  for a distance beyond the covered
        distance as stated above shall be borne by the Insured.
    In the unlikely event of the Company being unable to
   arrange for this service, the Company may request the
    Insured to arrange for the taxi on his own and submit the
     bill for the pre-authorized amount for reimbursement to
    the Company.
29. Accommodation Benefits: In the event of the Insured
    vehicle  being  immobilized  due  to  an  accident  or
   breakdown, the Company shall provide occupants of the
    Insured vehicle with a hotel accommodation for one day,
    for a maximum of ` 5000. Provided always that:
    a)  The breakdown/accident has taken place at least 100
      kms away from the Insured’s place of residence, as
        declared by the Insured at the time of Policy issuance.
    b)  The required time of repair of the Insured vehicle exceeds
       12 hours from the time of the accident/breakdown.
    c)  The number of individuals seated in the Insured vehicle
           is not more than the maximum seating capacity of the
        Insured vehicle.
    In the unlikely event of Company being unable to arrange for
    this service, the Company may request the Insured to arrange
    for accommodation on his own and submit the bill for the
    pre-authorized amount for reimbursement to the Company.
30. Daily Allowance: In an event of accident of the vehicle due
    to insured peril and the vehicle is in garage under repair for
   a minimum number of days, as stated in the schedule the
   Company will provide the following covers
    a)  Pay a daily allowance towards regular conveyance,
       as stated in the schedule, to the Insured for each and
        every completed day for which the Insured’s vehicle
           is under repair in a garage. Such allowance would be
        provided in form of travel voucher or reimbursement
         of self-arranged conveyance or courtesy  vehicle/
        alternate-travel-arrangement.
    b)  Such daily allowance would be upto the maximum
         daily amount mentioned on the schedule and would
       be triggered after the minimum number of days as
        stated on the schedule.
    c)   In case, any additional repairs are carried out for non-
        insured parts or damages due to perils which are not
        covered, the daily allowance would be restricted to
        reasonable number of days as agreed along with
        surveyor & garage/ workshop manager.
   The Daily allowance will not be payable if any or all of the
    following condition applies:
    1.     If Vehicle is not repaired at the Network Garage
    2.   Delay due to non-availability of spare parts required
         for repair
    3.  Number  of days  will be counted from the next
        calendar day after the insured vehicle is delivered
         to the garage for repair and would end on the day
        immediately preceding the date on which the vehicle
           is ready for inspection or delivery.
    4.   In case of reimbursement bill/invoice for travel made
       has to be submitted to the Company.
    5.  The travel vouchers provided would be valid for 24
        hours only.
31. Quality Assurance: In an event of accident or breakdown
    of the vehicle due to insured peril and the vehicle is in
   garage for repair for a minimum number of days, as stated
    in the schedule the Company will provide:
   Assurance on the quality of workmanship for a period of
   24 months or 10000 kms post repair whichever is earlier
    for the repairs carried out at the Network Garage. If any
    defects arise owing to the quality of workmanship, the
   same would be repaired/replaced at no extra cost to the
    policyholder. However, any kind of consequential losses
    are not covered under this Add-on.
    In case of all of the above mentioned assistance services/
    covers, the Company would not be liable for:
    1.   Providing  the  abovementioned  services  under
        conditions  of, war, invasion,  rebellion,  revolt,  civil
       commotion,  civil  war,  acts  of  terrorism,  nuclear
          fission, act(s) of government(s)/government agencies/
          judicial/ quasi-judicial authorities.
    2.  Any claims where the Insured vehicle is being used
         for the purpose of racing, rallying, motor-sports, or is
        not being used/driven in accordance with applicable
       laws and regulations.
    3.  Any claim where the Insured vehicle can be safely
         transferred on its own power to the nearest garage/
        workshop.
    4.  Any claims triggered by theft; any kind of consequential
         losses.
    5.  Any loss which is covered under any other insurance
         policy or manufacturer’s warranty or recall campaign
         or under any other such packages at the same time.
    6.  Any expenses for supply or replacement of parts/
        consumables.
    7.  Any loss/damage caused to the Insured vehicle when
              it is being used/driven against the recommendations
         of the owner’s/manufacturer’s manual.
    8.  Any claims where services have been availed of
        without the prior consent of the Company.
    9.  Any claim in case of breach of the following conditions
         of the policy, being one of the following conditions,
        namely:
          a.  A condition excluding the use of the vehicle—
                          i.   For hire or reward, where the vehicle is on the
                date of the contract of insurance a vehicle not
                covered by a permit to ply for hire or reward; or
                         ii.   For organised racing and speed testing; or
                         iii.  For a purpose not allowed by the permit
               under which the vehicle is used, where the
                  vehicle is a transport vehicle; or
                   iv.  Without side-car being attached where the
                  vehicle is a two-wheeled vehicle; or
          b.  A condition excluding driving by a named person
             or by any person who is not duly licenced or by
          any person who has been disqualified for holding
             or obtaining a driving licence during the period of
              disqualification or driving under the influence of
             alcohol or drugs.
    10. Any claim in case the policy is void on the ground that
              it was obtained by nondisclosure of any material fact
         or by representation of any fact which was false in
      some material particular.
    11. Any loss arises due to gratuitous passengers.
   Note : The facilitated services mentioned above if opted
        and mentioned in policy schedule may be subject to
          the terms and conditions as provided by the service
          providers during the term of the policy.
       The Company shall not be held responsible or liable
         for any act/error/omission or for quality of services
        provided. The services procured by the Insured from
         service providers shall be at their own risk and liability.

CHAPTER 8 - Warranty
    Warranted  that  the  insured named herein/owner  of
    the vehicle holds a valid Pollution Under Control (PUC)
     Certificate and/or valid fitness certificate, as applicable, on
    the date of commencement of the Policy and undertakes
    to renew and maintain a valid and effective PUC and/or
     fitness Certificate, as applicable, during the subsistence of
    the Policy. Further, the Company reserves the right to take
    appropriate action in case of any discrepancy in the PUC
    or fitness certificate.

CHAPTER 9 - Grievance Clause
    For  resolution  of  any  query  or  grievance,  Insured
   may  contact  the  respective  branch  office  of  the
   Company or may  call  toll free no.1800-2666 or may
    approach us at the sub section “Grievance Redressal”
   on our website www.icicilombard.com (Customer Support
     section). However, if the resolution provided by us is not
    satisfactory you may approach Insurance Regulatory and
    Development Authority of India (IRDAI) through the Bima
    Bharosa Portal - https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/ or IRDAI
    Grievance Call Centre(IGCC) at their  toll free no.1800
   4254 732  / 155255. You may also approach Insurance
   Ombudsman,  subject  to  vested  jurisdiction,  for  the
    redressal of grievance. Details of Insurance Ombudsman
     offices are available at IRDAI website: https://irdai.gov.in
    or on the Company’s website at www.icicilombard.com or
   on https://www.cioins.co.in/Ombudsman
