 PERSONAL PROTECT POLICY WORDINGS
 PART II OF THE POLICY SCHEDULE
I. PREAMBLE
 This Policy is a contract of insurance issued by
 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company
 Limited (hereinafter called the ‘Company’) to
 the  proposer  mentioned  in  the  schedule
  (hereinafter called the ‘Insured’) to cover the
 person(s) named in the schedule (hereinafter
 called the ‘Insured Persons’). The policy  is
 based on  the  statements and  declaration
 provided in the proposal Form by the proposer
 and  is  subject  to  receipt  of  the  requisite
 premium.
II.       DEFINITIONS
 For  the  purposes   of   this   Policy  and
 endorsements,   if any, the terms mentioned
 below shall have the meaning set forth: Where
 the context so  requires, references  to the
 singular shall also include references to the
  plural and references  to any gender  shall
 include references to all genders.
A. STANDARD DEFINITIONS
 1.  Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and
    involuntary event caused by external, visible
   and violent means.
 2. AYUSH Treatment refers to the medical
   and  / or hospitalisation treatments given
    under Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy,
    Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems
 3.  “Break in policy” means the period of gap
     that occurs at the end of the existing policy
    term / installment premium due date, when
    the premium due for renewal on a given
     policy or installment premium due is not paid
   on or before the premium renewal date or
    grace period.
 4.  “Grace period” means the specified period
     of time, immediately following the premium
   due date during which premium payment
    can be made to renew or continue a policy
     in force without loss of continuity benefits
    pertaining to waiting periods and coverage
     of pre-existing diseases. Coverage need not
   be available during the period for which no
   premium is received. The grace period for
    payment of the premium for  all types of
    insurance  policies  shall be:  fifteen days
    where premium payment mode is monthly
   and thirty days in all other cases. Provided
    h    i       h   ll   ff          d    i   h
   grace period,   if the premium  is paid  in
   instalments during the policy period.
5.  “Migration” means a  facility provided to
   policyholders (including all members under
    family cover and group policies), to transfer
   the credits gained for pre-existing diseases
   and specific waiting periods from one health
   insurance policy to another with the same
    insurer.
6.   “Portability” means a facility provided to
   the    health   insurance    policyholders
    (including all members under family cover),
    to  transfer  the  credits gained  for,  pre-
    existing  diseases  and  specific  waiting
   periods from one insurer to another insurer.
7.  “Pre-existing disease (PED)” means any
    condition, ailment, injury or disease:
       a.  that is/are diagnosed by a physician not
      more than 36 months prior to the date
        of commencement of the policy issued
       by the  insurer; or for which medical
       advice or treatment was recommended
        by, or received from, a physician, not
      more than 36 months prior to the date
        of commencement of the policy.
8.  “Cashless   Facility”  means  a   facility
   extended by the  insurer  to the  insured
   where  the  payments,  of  the  costs  of
   treatment undergone by  the  insured  in
   accordance  with  the  policy  terms  and
    conditions, are directly made to the network
   provider by the insurer to the extent pre-
    authorization is approved.
9.  “Condition Precedent” shall mean a policy
   term or condition upon which the Insurer's
     liability under the policy is conditional upon.
10. “Co-payment”  means  a   cost-sharing
   requirement under a health insurance policy
    that provides that the policyholder/insured
    will bear a  specified percentage  of the
   admissible claims amount. A co- payment
   does not reduce the Sum Insured.
11. “Day care centre” A day care centre means
   any  institution  established  for day  care
   treatment  of  illness and/or  injuries or a
   medical setup with a hospital and which has
   been registered with the local authorities,
   wherever  applicable, and  is  under  the
   supervision of a registered and qualified
   medical practitioner AND must comply with
     all minimum criterion as under
       a.  has  qualified nursing  staff under  its
       employment;
       b.  has qualified medical practitioner/s in
       charge;
       c.  has a fully equipped operation theatre
        of  its own where surgical procedures
       are carried out;
       d.  maintains daily records of patients and
          will make  these  accessible  to  the
       insurance   company's    authorized
       personnel
       e.  ‘Day care center’ includess AYUSH day
       care centre
12. “AYUSH Day Care Centre”: AYUSH Day
   Care   Centre  means   and   includes
   Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary
   Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary,  Clinic,
    Polyclinic or any such health centre which is
   registered   with   the   local   authorities,
   wherever applicable and having facilities for
   carrying  out  treatment  procedures  and
   medical      or      surgical/para-surgical
    interventions or both under the supervision
    of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner
    (s) on day care basis without  in-patient
   services and must comply  with  all  the
    following criterion:
      i.  Having  qualified  registered AYUSH
   Medical Practitioner(s) in charge;
      ii.  Having  dedicated  AYUSH  therapy
   sections as required and/or has equipped
   operation theatre where surgical procedures
   are to be carried out;
       iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients
   and  making  them  accessible   to  the
   insurance     company’s      authorized
   representative.
13. “Day Care Treatment” refers to medical
   treatment, and/or surgical procedure which
     is:
       a.  Undertaken under General  or Local
       Anesthesia  in  a  hospital/day  care
       centre in less than 24 hrs because of
        technological advancement, and
       b.  Which would have otherwise required a
        hospitalization of more than 24 hours.
   Treatment normally taken on an out-patient
   basis is not included in the scope of this
    definition.
14. “Deductible”  means   a   cost-sharing
    that provides that the insurer  will not be
    liable for a specified rupee amount in case
    of indemnity policies and for a specified
   number of days/hours in case of hospital
   cash policies which  will apply before any
    benefits  are payable by  the  insurer. A
   deductible  does  not  reduce  the Sum
   Insured.
15. “Dental  treatment” means a  treatment
    related  to teeth or structures supporting
   teeth including examinations, fillings (where
    appropriate),   crowns,   extractions  and
   surgery
16. “Grace Period” means the specified period
    of time immediately following the premium
   due date during which a payment can be
  made to renew or continue a policy in force
   without loss of continuity benefits such as
   waiting  periods  and  coverage  of  pre-
    existing diseases. Coverage is not available
    for the period  for which no premium  is
   received.
17. “Hospital”   means    any     institution
   established for in-patient care and day care
   treatment  of  illness  and/or  injuries and
   which has been registered as a hospital with
   the   local   authorities   under   Clinical
   Establishments      (Registration     and
   Regulation) Act, 2010 or under enactments
    specified under the Schedule  of Section
   56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all
   minimum criteria as under: -
         a.  has qualified nursing staff under  its
        employment round the clock;
         b.  has  at  least 10  in-patient beds  in
        towns having a population of less than
        10,00,000 and at least 15 in-patient
        beds in all other places;
          c.  has qualified medical practitioner(s) in
        charge round the clock;
         d.  has a fully equipped operation theatre
          of its own where surgical procedures
         are carried out
         e.  maintains daily records of patients and
       makes  these  accessible   to  the
         insurance   company's   authorized
         personnel.
            f.   ‘Hospital’ includes AYUSH hospital
18. “AYUSH Hospital”: An AYUSH Hospital is
   a      healthcare       facility     wherein
   medical/surgical/para surgical    treatment
   procedures and interventions are carried out
   by  AYUSH   Medical    Practitioner(s)
   comprising of any of the following:
     a. Central or State Government AYUSH
     Hospital; or
     b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH
     College  recognized  by  the   Central
    Government/Central  Council  of  Indian
     Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy;
     or
      c. AYUSH  Hospital, standalone  or co-
     located with in-patient healthcare facility of
    any  recognized  system  of  medicine,
     registered  with  the  local   authorities,
    wherever  applicable, and  is under the
     supervision  of  a  qualified  registered
   AYUSH Medical  Practitioner and must
    comply with all the following criterion:
           i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds;
            ii.  Having  qualified AYUSH  Medical
       Practitioner in charge round the clock;
            iii. Having  dedicated AYUSH therapy
      sections as required and/or has equipped
      operation   theatre   where    surgical
      procedures are to be carried out;
         iv.  Maintaining  daily  records  of  the
      patients and making them accessible to
      the  insurance  company’s  authorized
      representative.
19. “Hospitalization” means admission  in a
   Hospital  for  a minimum  period  of  24
   consecutive ‘In-patient Care’ hours except
    for        specified      Day      Care
   Procedures/Treatments,   where    such
   admission could be for a period of less than
   24consecutive hours.
20. “Illness” means a sickness or disease or
   pathological   condition  leading   to  the
   impairment of normal physiological function
   which  manifests  itself  during  the  Policy
   Period and requires medical treatment.
        a. Acute condition is a disease, illness or
         injury that is likely to respond quickly to
       treatment which aims  to  return  the
       person to his or her state of health
       immediately   before   suffering   the
        disease/illness/injury which leads to full
        recovery.
      b  Chronic condition A chronic condition is
       defined as a disease, illness, or injury
        that has one or more of the following
        characteristics:
                   i.      it  needs  ongoing  or  long-term
            monitoring through consultations,
           examinations, check-ups, and / or
             tests
                    ii.      it  needs  ongoing  or  long-term
             control or relief of symptoms
                     iii.     it requires your rehabilitation or for
          you to be specially trained to cope
            with it
               iv.     it continues indefinitely
             v.     it recurs or is likely to recur.
21. “Injury” means accidental physical bodily
   harm excluding illness or disease solely and
    directly caused by  external,  violent and
    visible and evident means which is verified
   and certified by a Medical Practitioner.
22. “Inpatient Care” means treatment for which
   the insured person has to stay in a Hospital
    for more than 24 hours for a covered event.
23. “Intensive Care” Unit means an identified
    section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is
   under  the  constant  supervision  of  a
   dedicated  Medical   Practitioner(s),  and
   which   is   specially  equipped   for  the
   continuous  monitoring and  treatment  of
    patients who are in a critical condition, or
   require life support facilities and where the
    level of care and supervision is considerably
   more sophisticated and intensive than in the
   ordinary and other wards.
24. “Medical Advice” means any consultation
   or  advice  from  a  Medical  Practitioner
    including the issuance of any prescription or
   follow-up prescription
25. “Medical   Expenses”   means   those
   expenses  that  an  Insured  Person  has
   necessarily  and   actually  incurred   for
   medical treatment on account of Illness or
   Accident  on  the  advice  of  a  Medical
    Practitioner, as long as these are no more
   than would have been payable if the Insured
   Person had not been insured and no more
   than other hospitals or doctors in the same
    locality would have charged for the same
   medical treatment.
26. “Medical  Practitioner” means a person
   who holds a  valid  registration from the
   Medical Council of any State or Medical
   Council  of  India  or  Council  for  Indian
   Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the
   Government of India or a State Government
   and is thereby entitled to practice medicine
    within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the
   scope and jurisdiction of licence.'
27. For   the  purpose   of   this   definition,
   "Immediate  Family"  would  mean  and
   include  the  Insured  Person's  spouse,
    children   (including  adopted  and  step
    children), brother(s), sister(s) and parent(s).
28. “Network Provider” means the Hospitals,
   health care providers enlisted by an insurer,
  TPA or jointly by an Insurer and TPA to
   provide medical services to an insured by a
   cashless  facility. The  list of the Network
   Hospitals is available with Us/ TPA and is
   subject to amendment from time to time.
29. “Non-Network   Provider”  means  any
    hospital, Day Care Centre or other provider
    that is not part of the network.
30. “Notification of claim” means the process
    of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA
   through any of the recognized modes of
   communication
31. “OPD treatment” means the one in which
   the Insured  visits a  clinic   /  hospital  or
   associated facility like a consultation room
    for diagnosis and treatment based on the
   advice  of  a  Medical  Practitioner.  The
   Insured is not admitted as a day care or in-
    patient.
32. Portability:
    a. The insured has the choice to port his /
   her policies from one Insurer to another. An
   Insured desirous of porting his/her policy to
   another insurer shall apply to such insurer to
    port the  entire  policy along with  all the
   members of the family,  if any, at least 30
   days before, but not earlier than 60 days
   from the due date for renewal.
    b. The insured  is entitled to transfer the
    credits gained to the extent  of the sum
   insured and the benefits available in the
   previous policy, subject to the underwriting
    policy of the Company
    c.  The  Company   shall  decide  and
   communicate on the proposal upon receipt
    of information from Existing insurer within
           ib d ti      li
    d.  This  benefit   is  not  applicable  for
   enhanced sum insured.
33. “Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses”
   means Medical Expenses incurred during
   pre-defined number of days preceding the
    hospitalization  of  the  Insured  Person,
   provided that:
   Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the
   same  condition  for  which  the  Insured
   person's Hospitalization was required, and
   The In- patient Hospitalization claim for such
    Hospitalization   is   admissible  by   the
   insurance Company.
34. “Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses”
   means Medical Expenses incurred during
   pre-defined number  of days immediately
    after the insured person is discharged from
   the hospital provided that:
       a.  Such Medical Expenses are incurred
         for the same condition for which the
       insured  person's  hospitalization was
        required and
       b.  The inpatient hospitalization claim for
       such hospitalization  is admissible by
       the insurance company
35. “Qualified Nurse” means a person who
   holds a valid registration from the Nursing
   Council of India or the Nursing Council of
   any state in India.
36. “Reasonable and Customary Charges”
   means the charges for services or supplies,
   which are the standard charges  for the
    specific provider and consistent with the
    prevailing charges in the geographical area
    for identical or similar services, taking into
   account the nature of the illness  / injury
   involved .
37. Renewal defines the terms on which the
   contract of insurance can be renewed on
   mutual consent with a provision of grace
   period for treating the renewal continuous
    for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-
    existing diseases, time-bound exclusions
   and for all waiting periods.
38. “Room rent” means the amount charged by
   a  hospital towards Room and Boarding
   expenses  and  shall  include  associated
   medical expenses.
39. “Subrogation” means  the  right  of  the
    insurer to assume the rights of the insured
   person to recover expenses paid out under
   the policy that may be recovered from any
   other source.
40. “Surgery or Surgical Procedure” means
   manual and  / or operative procedure (s)
   required for treatment of an illness or injury,
    correction  of  deformities  and  defects,
   diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from
    suffering and prolongation of life, performed
    in a hospital or day care centre by a Medical
    Practitioner.
SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS
  o  Admission means Your admission in a
      Hospital as an inpatient for the purpose
       of medical treatment of an Injury and/or
        Illness.
  o  Age means the completed years of the
      Insured Person on his/her last birthday
      as per the English calendar.
  o  Break in Policy occurs at the end of the
       existing policy term, when the premium
     due for renewal on a given policy is not
      paid on or before the premium renewal
      date or within 30 days thereof.
  o  Company  means   ICICI  Lombard
      General Insurance Company Limited.
  o  Contribution is essentially the right of an
       insurer to call upon other insurers liable
       to the same insured to share the cost of
     an  indemnity  claim  on  a  rateable
      proportion of Sum Insured. This clause
       shall not apply to any Benefit offered on
       fixed benefit basis.
  o  Day means a period of 24 consecutive
      hours.
  o  Hospital    Confinement    means
      confinement     for    a    continuous
      uninterrupted period of at least 24 hours
        in a Hospital as a resident/registered bed
       patient on the written advice and under
      the  regular  care and  attendance  of
      Medical Practitioner
  o  Insured  Event  means  any  event
       specifically mentioned as covered under
        this Policy.
  o  Insured Person means the person(s)
     whose   name(s)    are    specifically
      appearing in Part I of the Schedule to this
       Policy. For the purpose of avoidance of
      doubt    it  is  clarified  that  the  heirs
    executors, administrators, successors or
    legal  representatives  of  the  Insured
   Persons may present a claim on behalf
    of the Insured Person to the Company.
o  Loss of Use means the total paralysis of
   one or more limbs or loss of hearing of
   one or both the ears or loss of vision of
   one or both the eyes which is certified in
    writing by a Medical Practitioner to be
   permanent, complete and irreversible
o  Month means a calendar month as per
    the English calendar.
o  Nominee   means    the    person(s)
   nominated by the Insured Person  to
    receive the insurance benefits under this
    Policy  payable on  the  death  of  the
   Insured Person caused by an Accident.
   For the purpose of avoidance of doubt it
     is clarified that if the Insured Person is a
    minor, his legal guardian shall appoint
    the Nominee.
o  Out-patient means the Insured Person
   who is not hospitalized for more than 24
   consecutive  hours  but who  visits  a
    Hospital, clinic, or associated facility for
   diagnosis  or  treatment. However any
   Insured Person undergoing any specified
    "specified         day          care
   procedures/treatment"    will   not   be
   considered as an Out-patient.
o  Physical   Separation  means   with
   respect to the hand, severance of limb at
    or above the wrists, and with respect to
    the foot, severance of limb at or above
    the ankle.
o  Policy means the Policy booklet along
    with the schedule/Certificate, extensions
   and any applicable endorsement. The
    Policy contains details of the extent of
   cover available to the Insured Person,
    the exclusions from the cover and the
   terms and conditions of the issue of the
    Policy.
o  Policy holder means the person(s) or
    the entity named in Part I of the Schedule
    to this Policy who executed the Policy
   Schedule and  is (are) responsible  for
   payment of premium(s).
o  Policy  Period  means   the   period
   commencing from Policy Start Date and
   h                     ifi d i P   t I   f th S h d  l
    to this Policy and terminating at midnight
    or on the time mentioned on the Policy
   End Date as specified in Part  I of the
   Schedule to this Policy.
o  Policy Schedule means the Schedule
   attached  to and forming  part  of  the
    Policy.
o  Policy Year means a period of twelve
   months beginning from the Policy Start
   Date,  as  specified  in  Part   I  of  the
   Schedule, and ending on the last day of
   such  twelve  Month  period.  For  the
   purpose of subsequent years, following
    the first year of the Policy Period, "Policy
   Year"  shall mean a period  of twelve
   Months beginning from the end of the
   previous Policy Year and lapsing on the
    last day of such twelve month period, till
    the Policy End Date as specified in Part I
    of the Schedule.
o  Professional Sports means a  sport,
   which would remunerate a  player  in
   excess of 50% of his annual income as a
   means of his livelihood.
o  Scheduled   Airline  means   civilian
   scheduled  air carrier operating  civilian
     flights, holding a certificate, license or
    similar    authorization    for     civilian
   scheduled air carrier transport issued by
    the country of the aircraft's registry, and
   which  in  accordance  therewith  flies,
   maintains and publishes tariffs for regular
   passenger service between named cities
    at regular and specified times, on regular
    or chartered  flights operated by such
    carrier.
o  Senior Citizen means any person who
   has completed sixty or more years of age
   as on the date of commencement or
   renewal of a health insurance policy.
o Sum Insured means and denotes the
   maximum amount of cover available to
    the Insured Person under each section
   and extension (s) therein as detailed in
    Part  I of the Schedule to  this Policy,
    subject to the terms and conditions of this
    Policy, which represents the Company's
   maximum   liability  for   all  claims   in
   aggregate  payable  to  such  Insured
   Person by the Company under each of
    the respective section(s) and extension
       (s) therein.
  o  War means war, whether declared or
      not, or any warlike activities, including
     use of military force by any sovereign
      nation to achieve economic, geographic,
       nationalistic, political, racial, religious or
      other ends.


III.     BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE
POLICY SECTION A
The Company hereby agrees, subject to the
terms,  exclusions  and  conditions  herein
contained or otherwise expressed hereon, to
pay to the Insured Person (or his Nominee/
legal heir, as the case may be) a sum as
compensation on occurrence of any Insured
Event, as  specifically described hereunder,
under different Benefit(s) (and Extensions -  if
any) arising due to an Injury sustained by the
Insured Person during the Policy Period but not
exceeding the Sum Insured as specified under
the respective Benefits (and Extensions  -  if
any) under Section A.
Benefit 1: Insured Event - Death resulting
from Accident
The Company hereby agrees, subject to the
terms, conditions and exclusions applicable to
this Section 2.1 and the terms, conditions,
general exclusions stated in the Policy, to pay
such Sum  Insured  as  mentioned  against
Benefit 1 under Section A of Part  I of the
Schedule to this Policy, on the occurrence of
death of the Insured Person, provided such
death results solely and directly from an Injury,
within twelve months from the date of Accident
resulting in such Injury. Provided that the date
of occurrence of the Accident falls within the
Policy Period
Benefit 2: Insured Event - Permanent Total
Disablement (PTD) resulting from Accident
The Company hereby agrees, subject to the
terms, conditions and exclusions applicable to
this Section 2.2 and the terms, conditions,
general exclusions stated in the Policy, to pay
such Sum Insured, in the manner indicated
below, on the occurrence of any of the following
losses, provide such losses to the Insured
Person  are  total and  irrecoverable  losses
which result solely and directly from an Injury,
within twelve months from the date of Accident
resulting in such Injury. Provided that the date
of occurrence of the Accident falls within the
Policy Period/Policy Year:
     i)  Loss of Use of both eyes, or Physical
      Separation/ Loss of Use of two entire
     hands or two entire feet, or one entire
     hand and one entire foot, or of such Loss
      of Use of one eye and such Physical
      Separation/ Loss of Use of one entire
     hand or one entire foot, then the Sum
     Insured  as  stated  under  Benefit  2,
     Section A in the Part I of the Schedule to
       this Policy hereto as applicable to such
     Insured Person.
     ii)  Physical Separation/ Loss of Use of two
     hands or two feet, or of one hand and one
       foot, or of Loss of Use of one eye and
     Loss of Use of one hand or one foot, then
      the Sum Insured as stated under Benefit
      2, Section A in Part I of the Schedule to
       this Policy hereto as applicable to such
     Insured Person.
      iii)   If  such   Injury   shall  as  a   direct
     consequence thereof, permanently, and
       totally, disable the Insured Person from
     engaging   in  any  employment   or
     occupation     of    any    description
     whatsoever, then the Sum Insured as
      stated under Benefit 2, Section A in Part
         I of the Schedule to this Policy hereto as
      applicable to such Insured Person.
Benefit 3: Insured Event - Permanent Partial
Disablement (PPD) resulting from Accident
The Company hereby agrees, subject to the
terms, conditions and exclusions applicable to
this Section and the terms, conditions, general
exclusions stated in the Policy, to pay such
Sum Insured as mentioned against Benefit 3
under Section A of Part I of the Schedule to this
Policy as applicable to such Insured Person in
the manner indicated below, on the occurrence
of any of the following losses, provided such
losses to the Insured Person are irrecoverable
losses and result in Loss of Use or Physical
Separation which arises solely and  directly
from an Injury, within twelve months from the
date of Accident resulting in such Injury.
Provided that the date of occurrence of the
Accident falls within the Policy Period/Policy
Year.  : Losses covered Percentage of Sum
Insured
 Sr Losses covered                  Percenta
   .                                ge of
No                         Sum
   .                                      Insured
 1. Loss of Use/ Physical Separation:
   One entire hand                   5
                                   0
   One entire foot                    5
                                   0
 2. Loss of Use of one eye             5
                                   0
 3. Loss of toes – all                  2
                                   0
    Great both phalanges              5
 4. Loss of Use of both ears            50
 5. Loss of Use of one ear             20
 6. Loss of four fingers and thumb of    40
   one hand
 7. Loss of four fingers                35
 8. Loss of thumb - both phalanges      25
   One phalanx                     10
 9. Loss   of  Index   finger-   three    10
    phalanges
   Two phalanges                    8
   One phalanx                      4
10. Loss  of  middle  finger   -  three    6
    phalanges
   Two phalanges                    4
   One phalanx                      2
11. Loss   of   ring   finger   -  three    5
    phalanges
   Two phalanges                    4
   One phalanx                      2
12. Loss   of    little   finger   -  three    4
    phalanges
   Two phalanges                    3
   One phalanx                      2
13. Loss of metacarpus
     First or second (additional)          3
    Third, fourth or fifth (additional)       2
 Benefit 4: Insured Event - Temporary Total
 Disablement (TTD) resulting from Accident
 On  the  occurrence  of  Temporary  Total
 Disablement, which means such loss caused
 to the Insured Person, which results solely and
 directly from an Injury sustained within the
 Policy  Period/Policy  Year, and  completely
 incapacitates   the   Insured  Person  from
engaging in any employment or occupation of
any description whatsoever which he/ she was
capable of performing at the time of Accident
resulting in such Injury, the Company hereby
agrees, subject to the terms, conditions and
exclusions applicable to this Section 2.4 and
the  terms,  conditions,  general  exclusions
stated in the Policy, to pay a sum as stated
under Benefit 4 of Section A of Part  I of the
Schedule to this Policy per week, for such time
period for which the Insured Person is totally
disabled from engaging in any employment or
occupation of any description whatsoever.
Provided that the compensation payable under
this Benefit shall not be payable for more than
                       weeks       (as
specified under benefit amount against  this
Cover), in respect of an Injury, calculated from
the date  of commencement of disablement
provided that such a disablement arises out of
an  Injury  within 7 days from the date  of
Accident resulting in such Injury. Provided that
the date of occurrence of the Accident falls
within the Policy Period/Policy Year. However
the Company's liability for payment of all claims
under  this  benefit  in aggregate  for  Policy
Period/Policy Year in no case shall exceed the
Sum Insured as stated under Section A in Part
I  of the Schedule to  this Policy hereto as
applicable to such Insured Person.
Maximum Liability of the Company under
Section A
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated
under this Policy the Company's total liability
for payment of compensation under various
benefit(s) under Section A in aggregate shall
not exceed the amount mentioned as Sum
Insured  against  each  such  benefit  under
Section A  in  Part   I  of  the Schedule. On
payment of the Sum Insured as referred for all
the above benefits under Section A and  its
extensions,  such   benefits  and   relevant
extensions shall cease to exist.
EXTENSIONS UNDER SECTION A
The Company hereby agrees, subject to the
terms,  exclusions  and  conditions  herein
contained or otherwise expressed hereon, to
extend the cover available under Section A to
include the following on payment of additional
premium, and reimburse the Insured Person
(or his Nominee/ legal heir, as the case may
be) a sum specified in Part I of the Schedule to
this  Policy  in  the  manner  indicated  on
occurrence of the following. Claims under the
extensions  mentioned  hereunder  shall  be
admissible only consequent to the admissibility
of the claim under the corresponding Benefits
of Section A as mentioned in Part  I of the
Schedule.
However the Company's total  liability, under
this Extension 3, for payment of all claims in
aggregate for the Policy Period/Policy Year
shall not exceed the Sum Insured as stated
against Extension 3 in Part I of the Schedule as
applicable to such Insured Person
Extension 1: Carriage of Dead Body
In consideration of the payment of additional
premium, the Company hereby agrees, subject
to  the  terms,  conditions  and  exclusions
applicable  to  this  Section and  the  terms,
conditions, general exclusions stated  in the
Policy to extend the cover available under
Section A to reimburse such expenses which
are incurred, subject to a maximum of Sum
Insured as mentioned in Extension 1 under
Part  I of the Schedule, for transportation of
Insured Person's dead body to the place of
residence from the place of death. Further, it is
a condition precedent to the payment of the
aforesaid  transportation expenses  that  the
detailed account  of  the expenses  incurred
along  with   all  the  supporting   bills  and
documents,  substantiating  such  expenses,
shall be submitted to and approved by the
Company.
Extension 2: Medical Benefits Extension
In consideration of the payment of additional
premium, the Company hereby agrees, subject
to  the  terms,  conditions  and  exclusions
applicable  to  this  Section and  the  terms,
conditions, general exclusions stated  in the
Policy to extend the cover available under
Section A to reimburse the Medical Expenses
incurred during Hospitalisation, subject to a
maximum of Rs.    (as    specified   under
benefit  amount   against   Extension    2),
reasonably  and  necessarily  incurred  and
expended,  during  the  Policy  Period/Policy
Year, for the treatment of the Insured Person
on  the   written  advice   of  the  Medical
Practitioner,  in connection with any Insured
Event covered under Section A of Part I of the
made by the Insured Person and admitted by
the Company.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated
herein the Company shall be liable to make
payment  under  this  extension  only   if  the
Hospitalisation commences within 7 days of
occurrence of such Accident and the Insured
Person  undergoes  Hospital  Confinement,
exceeding consecutive days.
Further,   it  is a condition precedent  to the
payment of such Medical Expenses that the
Medical Practitioner's detailed account shall be
submitted to and is approved by the Company.
However the Company's total  liability, under
this extension, for payment of  all claims in
aggregate for the Policy Period/Policy Year
shall not exceed the Sum Insured as stated
against Extension 2 in Part I of the Schedule as
applicable to such Insured Person.
Extension  3:  Hospital  Daily  Allowance
Extension
In consideration of the payment of additional
premium, the Company hereby agrees, subject
to  the  terms,  conditions  and  exclusions
applicable  to  this  Section and  the  terms,
conditions, general exclusions stated  in the
Policy to extend the cover available under
Section A to pay an allowance as mentioned,
in Extension 3 of Part  I to the Schedule, for
each day  of  Hospital Confinement as an
inpatient   in  a   Hospital  consequent   to
Permanent   Total   Disablement/Permanent
Partial     Disablement/Temporary     Total
Disablement as covered under Section A of
Part I of the Schedule to this Policy for which a
claim  is made by the Insured Person and
admitted by the Company.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated
herein the Company shall not be liable to pay
for any claim arising under this Extension 3
within the first __consecutive days of Hospital
confinement  (as  specified  under  benefit
amount against this Extension),
Provided the Company shall be liable to make
payment under this Extension 3 only  if such
Hospital Confinement occurs within 7 days of
occurrence of such Accident.
However the Company's maximum liability for
payment of a claim under this Extension 3
arising out of an Accident resulting in Hospital
Confinement   shall  not  e ceed  da s   of
Hospital  Confinement.  (as  specified  under
benefit amount against this Extension).
.
Extension 4: Permanent Total Disablement
Improvement Benefit Extension
In consideration of the payment of additional
premium, the Company hereby agrees, subject
to  the  terms,  conditions  and  exclusions
applicable  to  this  Section and  the  terms,
conditions, general exclusions stated  in the
Policy to extend the cover available under
Section A to pay such an additional amount
which  is equal to the amount as indicated
against Extension 4 in Part I of Schedule, to the
Insured  Person  for  any  Permanent  Total
Disablement suffered by the Insured Person as
covered under Section A  of Part  I  of the
Schedule to this Policy for which a claim is
made by the Insured Person and admitted by
the Company. However the Company's liability
for payment of all claims under this extension
in aggregate for Policy Period/Policy Year in no
case shall exceed the Sum Insured as stated
against Extension 4 in Part I of the Schedule
hereto as applicable to such Insured Person.
Extension     5:    Permanent     Partial
Disablement    Improvement     Benefit
Extension
In consideration of the payment of additional
premium, the Company hereby agrees, subject
to  the  terms,  conditions  and  exclusions
applicable  to  this  Section and  the  terms,
conditions, general exclusions stated  in the
Policy to extend the cover available under
Section A to pay such an additional amount
which  is equal to the amount as indicated
against Extension 5 in Part I of Schedule, to the
Insured  Person  for  a  Permanent  Partial
Disablement suffered by the Insured Person as
covered under Section A  of Part  I  of the
Schedule to this Policy for which a claim is
made by the Insured Person and admitted by
the Company.
However, the Company's liability for payment
of all claims under this extension in aggregate
for Policy Period/Policy Year in no case shall
exceed the Sum Insured as stated against
Extension 5 in Part I of the Schedule hereto as
applicable to such Insured Person.
Extension 6: Children's Education Grant
Extension
In consideration of the payment of additional
premium, the Company hereby agrees, subject
to  the  terms,  conditions  and  exclusions
applicable  to  this  Section and  the  terms,
conditions, general exclusions stated  in the
Policy, that in the event of Death or Permanent
Total Disablement  suffered by the Insured
Personas covered under Section A of Part I of
the Schedule to this Policy for which a claim is
made and admitted by the Company,  this
extension  shall pay the amount, as stated
against Extension 6 in Part I of the Schedule
applicable to such Insured Person.
However the Company's liability for payment of
all claims under this extension in aggregate for
Policy Period/Policy Year  in no case  shall
exceed the Sum Insured as stated against
Extension 6 of Part I of the Schedule hereto as
applicable to such Insured Person.
Extension    7:   Ambulance   Charges
Extension
In consideration of the payment of additional
premium, the Company hereby agrees, subject
to  the  terms,  conditions  and  exclusions
applicable  to  this  Section and  the  terms,
conditions, general exclusions stated  in the
Policy, that the Company shall reimburse the
expenses paid, subject to the amount as stated
against Extension 7 in Part I of the Schedule
applicable, to such Insured Person for any
ambulance services availed for transportation
of the Insured Person to the Hospital from the
place of Accident which results in an Insured
Event covered under Section A.
Further,   it  is a condition precedent  to the
payment of Ambulance Charges Extension that
the claim under Benefit 1/2/3/4 is admitted and
approved by the Company.
However the Company's liability for payment of
all claims under this extension in aggregate for
Policy Period/Policy Year  in no case  shall
exceed the Sum Insured as stated against
Extension 7 of Part I of the Schedule hereto as
applicable to such Insured Person.
Extension 8: Funeral Expenses Extension
In consideration of the payment of additional
premium, the Company hereby agrees, subject
to  the  terms,  conditions  and  exclusions
applicable  to  this  Section and  the  terms,
conditions, general exclusions stated  in the
Policy to reimburse the expenses paid for the
funeral services of the Insured Person subject
to  the Sum  Insured,  as  stated  against
Extension 8 in Part I of the Schedule applicable
to such Insured Person
Further,   it  is a  condition precedent  to the
payment under this extension 8 that the claim
under Benefit 1 is admitted and paid by the
Company.
Extension  9:  Repatriation  of  Remains
Extension
In consideration of the payment of additional
premium, the Company hereby agrees, subject
to  the  terms,  conditions  and  exclusions
applicable  to  this  Section and  the  terms,
conditions, general exclusions stated  in the
Policy, to reimburse the costs of transporting
the mortal remains of the deceased Insured
Person from the place of death back to the city
of residence, in the event of the death of the
Insured Person subject to the Sum Insured, as
stated against Extension 9 in Part  I of the
Schedule applicable to such Insured Person.
Further,   it  is a  condition precedent  to the
payment under this extension that the claim
under Benefit 1 is admitted and paid by the
Company.
SECTION -B Benefit 5: Accidental Hospital
Confinement Allowance Benefit
The Company hereby agrees, subject to the
terms, conditions and exclusions applicable to
this Section and the terms, conditions, general
exclusions stated in the Policy to pay a sum, as
mentioned in Benefit 5 under Section B of Part
I to the Schedule, for each day of Hospital
Confinement  of the Insured Person as an
inpatient  in a  Hospital consequent  to  the
Insured Person sustaining Injury during the
Policy  Period/Policy  Year,  which  requires
Hospital  Confinement.  Provided  that  such
Hospital Confinement arises out of an Injury
within 7 days  from  the  date  of  Accident
resulting in such Injury. Provided that the date
of occurrence of the Accident falls within the
Policy Period/Policy Year.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated
herein the Company shall not be liable to pay
for any claim under this Benefit 5 arising out of
the    first  consecutive  days   of   Hospital
Confinement.
However the Company's maximum liability for
             t   f        l  i    d   thi b      fit h   ll     t
exceed  days  of  Hospital  Confinement  in
aggregate.
However the Company's total  liability, under
this  Benefit,  for payment  of  all  claims  in
aggregate for the Policy Period/Policy Year
shall not exceed the Sum Insured as stated
against Benefit 5 of Section B in Part I of the
Schedule hereto as applicable to such Insured
Person.
Benefit   6:   Accidental   Hospitalization
Expenses Reimbursement
The Company hereby agrees, subject to the
terms, conditions and exclusions applicable to
this Section and the terms, conditions, general
exclusions stated in Benefit 6 under Section B
of Part  I to the Schedule, to reimburse the
Insured  Person  for  the  reasonable  and
necessary Medical Expenses incurred during
Hospitalisation  arising  out  of  the  Injury
sustained by the Insured Person during the
Policy Period/ Policy Year, which on the written
advice  of  a  Medical  Practitioner  requires
Hospitalization.
Provided that such Hospitalization arises out of
an  Injury  within 7 days from  the date  of
Accident  resulting  in such  Injury and  the
Company's total liability, under this Benefit, for
payment of  all claims  in aggregate  for the
Policy Period/Policy Year shall not exceed the
Sum Insured as stated against Benefit 6 of
Section B in Part I of the Schedule hereto as
applicable to such Insured Person.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated
herein the Company shall be liable to make
payment  under  this  Benefit  only    if  the
Hospitalization exceeds  atleast consecutive
days. The expenses incurred on eyeglasses,
contact lenses, hearing aids and examination
for the prescription or fitting thereof shall be
excluded from the cover under this Benefit 6
unless specifically mentioned in the Part I of the
Schedule to this Policy and the impairment of
vision or hearing  is caused as a  result  of
Accident covered under the Policy.
Benefit 7: Convalescence Benefit
In the event of the Insured Person sustaining
Injury during the Policy Period/ Policy Year,
which on the  written advice  of a Medical
Practitioner requires Hospital Confinement and
such    Hospital    Confinement   exceeds
consecutive days then the Company will pay
 the amount as stated against Benefit 7 under
 Section B  of  Part   I  of  the Schedule as
 applicable to such Insured Person.

 Provided  that  such  Hospital  Confinement
 arises out of an Injury within 7 days from the
 date of Accident resulting in such Injury and the
 Company's total liability, under this Benefit, for
 payment of  all claims  in aggregate  for the
 Policy Period/Policy Year shall not exceed the
Sum Insured as stated against Benefit 7 of
 Section B in Part I of the Schedule hereto as
 applicable to such Insured  Person.

 Benefit 8: Double Benefit
 In the event  of any two  or more Insured
 Persons, covered under this Policy, sustaining
 Injury as a consequence of the same Accident,
 during the Policy Period/Policy Year, which on
 the written advice of a Medical Practitioner
 requires   Hospitalization   of   the   Insured
 Person(s)    and      this     simultaneous
 Hospitalization exceeds consecutive days for
 each of the such Insured Person(s), then the
 Company  shall pay the amount as  stated
 against Benefit 8 under Section B of Part I of
 the Schedule as applicable to such Insured
 Person(s).
 Provided that such Hospitalization arises out of
 an  Injury  within 7 days from  the date  of
 Accident resulting in such Injury. Provided that
 the date of occurrence of the Accident falls
 within the Policy Period/Policy Year.
 However the Company's total  liability, under
 this  Benefit,  for payment  of  all  claims  in
 aggregate for the Policy Period/Policy Year
 shall not exceed the Sum Insured as stated
 against Benefit 8 of Section B in Part I of the
 Schedule hereto
IV. EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS
A. STANDARD EXCLUSIONS
 For Extension 2 & 3 of Section A following
 exclusions shall apply-
1.  Maternity (Code –  Excl  18)  -  (Unless
   otherwise covered and specifically included
    in the Policy Schedule) -
a.  Medical treatment expenses traceable to
    childbirth (including complicated deliveries
   and caesarean  sections  incurred  during
    hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;
b  Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due
    to  an  accident)  and   lawful  medical
    termination of pregnancy during the policy
   period
2.  Breach of law (Code – Excl 10) - Expenses
    for  treatment  directly  arising  from  or
   consequent  upon  any  Insured  Person
   committing  or  attempting  to  commit  a
   breach of law with criminal intent.
3.  Change of Gender Treatments (Code – Excl
   07)  - Expenses related to any treatment,
    including surgical management, to change
    characteristics of the body to those of the
   opposite sex.
4.  Cosmetic or Plastic Surgery (Code – Excl
   08)  - Expenses  for cosmetic  or  plastic
   surgery  or  any  treatment  to  change
   appearance   unless   for   reconstruction
    following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or
   as part of medically necessary treatment to
   remove a direct and immediate health risk to
   the insured. For this to be considered a
   medical necessity, it must be certified by the
   attending Medical Practitioner
5.  Treatments  received  in  health  hydros,
   nature  cure   clinics,  spas   or   similar
   establishments or private beds registered as
   a   nursing  home   attached   to  such
   establishments  or  where  admission   is
   arranged  wholly  or  partly  for  domestic
   reasons (Code – Excl 13)
6.  Use of intoxicating drugs, liquors or any
   diseases,  Injury,  death  or  disablement
    directly or indirectly due to any one or more
    of them.
7.  Treatment    for,   Alcoholism,   drug   or
   substance abuse or any addictive condition
   and consequences thereof (Code – Excl 12)
8.  Dental  treatment, eye  treatment  unless
   necessitated as a consequence of an Injury.
9.  Refractive  error  (Code  –  Excl  15)   -
   Expenses  related  to  the  treatment  for
    correction of eye sight due to refractive error
    less than 7.5 dioptres.
10. Investigation & Evaluation (Code – Excl 04)
     -
i.  Expenses related to any admission primarily
    for  diagnostics and  evaluation purposes
   only are excluded.
ii.  Any diagnostic expenses which are not
    related  or  not  incidental  to  the  current
    diagnosis and treatment are excluded.
   B. SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS
   The Company shall not be liable for:

i) Any other payment to the Insured Person
   after a claim under Benefit 1 Section A of Part
     I of the Schedule to this Policy has been
   admitted and become  payable. However,
  amounts relating to Extensions under Section
    - A  viz. Carriage  of Dead Body, Medical
   Benefits,   Children's   Education   Grant,
  Ambulance Charges, Funeral Expenses and
   Repatriation of Remains,  if applicable would
  be payable in addition.
ii) Payment of compensation relating to Medical
  Expenses  unless  covered  by  way   of
   appropriate extensions.
iii) Payment  of any  claim  for  Hospitalization
  where  such   Hospitalization  does   not
  commence  within  7  days  of  Accident,
   provided that the Accident occurs within the
   Policy Period/Policy Year.
iv) Payment of compensation in respect of death,
   disablement (whether of a permanent nature
   or of a temporary nature), Injury, disease,
   illness, Hospitalization of Insured Person
a. from   intentional   self-injury,   suicide   or
   attempted suicide;
b. whilst under  the  influence  of  intoxicating
   liquor or drugs;
c. whilst engaging in aviation or ballooning, or
   whilst mounting into, or dismounting from or
   traveling in any balloon or aircraft other than
  as a passenger (fare-paying or otherwise) in
  any Scheduled  Airlines  in  the  world,  or
   engaging in any kind of adventure sports for
   personal gratification.
   [Standard type of aircraft means any aircraft
   duly licensed to carry passengers (for hire or
   otherwise)   by    appropriate    authority
   irrespective of whether such an aircraft  is
   privately owned or chartered or operated by a
  Scheduled Airline or whether such an aircraft
  has a single engine or multiengine;]
d. directly  or  indirectly caused by  venereal
   disease
e. arising or resulting from the Insured Person
   committing any breach of law.
     v) Payment of compensation in respect of
      death   disablement  (whether   of  a
    permanent  nature  or  of a temporary
     nature),    Injury,    disease,    illness,
     Hospitalization of Insured Person
a.  from   Participation   in   winter   sports,
   skydiving/parachuting,   hang    gliding,
   bungee jumping, scuba diving, mountain
   climbing  (where  ropes  or  guides  are
   customarily used), riding or driving in races
   or  rallies using a motorized vehicle or
    bicycle, caving or pot-holing, hunting or
   equestrian activities, skin diving or other
   underwater  activity,  rafting  or canoeing
   involving white water rapids, yachting or
   boating outside coastal waters (2 miles),
    participation in any Professional Sports,
   any  bodily  contact  sport  or any  other
   hazardous or potentially dangerous sport
    for which the Insured Person is untrained,
   unless  specifically  covered  under  the
    Policy.
  vi) Payment of compensation in respect of
     death,  disablement  (whether   of  a
    permanent  nature  or  of a temporary
     nature),    Injury,    disease,    illness,
     Hospitalization of Insured Person due to,
     or arising out of, or directly or indirectly
    connected  with  or traceable  to, War,
     invasion, act of foreign enemy, hostilities
    (whether war be declared or not)  civil
     war,  rebellion,  revolution,  insurrection,
     mutiny,   military  or  usurped  power,
     seizure, capture, arrests, restraints and
    detainment of all kinds.
  vii) Payment of compensation in respect of
     death,  disablement  (whether   of  a
    permanent  nature  or  of a temporary
     nature),    Injury,    disease,    illness,
     Hospitalization of Insured Person:
       a. Directly or  indirectly caused by or
         contributed  to by  or  arising from
          ionizing radiation or contamination
        by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel
         or from any nuclear waste or from
         the combustion of nuclear fuel. For
         the  purpose   of   this  exclusion,
        combustion shall include any self-
         sustaining process of nuclear fission
         or nuclear fusion.
       b. Directly or  indirectly caused by or
         contributed  to by  or  arising from
         nuclear weapon materials.
c.  Whilst working  in underground mines or
   explosives   magazines,    or    involving
    electrical  installation  with  high  tension
    supply, or as jockeys or circus personnel, or
   engaged in activities like racing on wheels
    or   horseback,   big  game   hunting,
   mountaineering,   winter    sports,   rock
    climbing, pot holing, bungee jumping, skiing,
    ice hockey, ballooning, hang gliding, river
    rafting, polo and persons whilst engaged in
   occupation / activities of similar hazard.
viii) Payment  of compensation  in respect  of
   death, disablement (whether of a permanent
   nature or of a temporary nature), Injury,
   disease, illness, Hospitalization of Insured
   Person resulting directly from, or indirectly
   caused by, or contributed to or aggravated
    or prolonged by, childbirth or pregnancy or
    in consequence thereof.
ix) Nuclear,  Chemical,  Biological  Terrorism
   Exclusion  Clause:  This  Policy  shall  not
   extend   to  cover   death,  disablement
   (whether of a permanent nature or of a
   temporary nature), Injury, disease, illness,
    Hospitalization of Insured Person resulting
    directly   or   indirectly   arising   out   of,
    contributed to or caused by, or resulting
   from  or  in  connection  with any  act  of
   Nuclear, Chemical, Biological Terrorism (as
   defined  below)  regardless  of any  other
   cause or event contributing concurrently or
    in any other sequence to the loss.
a.  For the purpose of this exclusion "Nuclear,
   Chemical, Biological Terrorism" shall mean
   the use of any nuclear weapon or device or
   the emission, discharge, dispersal, release
    or escape of any solid, liquid or gaseous
   Chemical  agent  and/or  Biological agent
   during the period of this insurance by any
   person  or group(s)  of persons, whether
    acting alone or on behalf of or in connection
    with any organization(s) or government(s),
   committed   for    political,   religious   or
    ideological purposes or reasons including
   the intention to influence any government
   and/or to put the public, or any section of the
    public, in fear.
b.  "Chemical"   agent    shall  mean   any
   compound,    which,   when     suitably
   disseminated,   produces   incapacitating,
   damaging  or  lethal  effects  on  people,
   animals plants or material property
c.  Biological agent shall mean any pathogenic
   (disease    producing)    micro-organism(s)
   and/or    biologically   produced    toxin(s)
   (including genetically modified organisms and
   chemically synthesized toxins) which cause
   illness and/or death in humans, animals or
   plants.
     x) Payment of compensation in respect of
       death,  disablement  (whether   of  a
      permanent  nature  or  of a temporary
       nature),    Injury,    disease,    illness,
       Hospitalization of Insured Person while
       serving in any branch of the military or
      armed forces of any country during War
       or warlike operations.
     xi) Payment of aggregate claims under any
        benefit or extensions exceeding the Sum
       Insured      of      the      respective
        benefit's/sections  for the  entire  Policy
       Year/Policy Period as specified in Part I
        of the Schedule to this Policy applicable
        to such Insured Person.
      xii) If the Company alleges that by reason of
      any of the above exclusions i.e. any loss,
       cost or expenses is not covered by this
        Policy, the onus of proving the contrary
        shall be upon the Insured Person/ or any
      such person  acting on behalf  of the
       Insured Person, as the case may be.
      xiii) For Extension 2 & 3 of Section A, the
       following exclusions shall apply-
          a.  disease, Injury, death or disablement
             directly  or  indirectly due  to War,
            invasion,  act  of  foreign  enemy
              hostilities  or  warlike  operations
           (whether War be declared or not) or
                civil commotion or rebellion, military,
           naval or air service
          b.  hunting, steeple chasing, revolution,
            insurrection,  mutiny,  engaging  in
            aviation other than as a passenger
            (fare paying or otherwise)  in any
           licensed standard type of aircraft.
          c.  Circumcision      or       strictures,
            vaccination, inoculation, intentional
              self-injury, (which expression shall
           cover  also  general  debility,  "run
         down" conditions), venereal disease,
          d. Use of intoxicating drugs, liquors or
          any  diseases,   Injury,  death  or
           disablement directly or indirectly due
            to any one or more of them.
           e.    Dental treatment, eye treatment
        unless necessitated as a consequence
         of an Injury.
             f.     Any Injury present prior to the
  commencement of Policy Period. Any Injury
   existing before the Policy Start Date as stated
   in Part  I  of the Schedule  to  this  Policy,
   whether or not if the same has been treated,
   or for which medical advice, diagnosis, care
   or treatment has been sought before the
  commencement of this Policy. Any illness,
   complication  or  ailment  arising  out  of  or
   connected to such Injury.
g. Any  Hospitalization not  arising out  of an
   Injury.
h. Payment of compensation relating to Medical
  Expenses not incurred in a Hospital.
V BASIS OF ASSESSMENT OF  CLAIM:
  APPLICABLE TO POLICY
A. The procedure for lodging the claim shall be
  as under:
  Upon the happening of any event giving rise
   or likely to give rise to a claim under this
   Policy:
1. Barring exceptional circumstances where a
   reasonable cause is shown and the Company
    is satisfied with such reasons, the Company
   should be immediately notified in writing of
  such event.
2. The Insured Person  or any such person
   acting on behalf of the Insured Person, as the
  case may be, shall deliver to the Company,
   within 30days of the date on which the event
   shall have come to his knowledge, a detailed
   statement in writing as per the claim form, and
  any other material particular, relevant to the
  making of such claim.
3. The Insured Person  or any such person
   acting on behalf of the Insured Person, as the
  case may be, shall tender to the Company all
   reasonable   information,  assistance  and
   proofs   in  connection   with  any  claim
   hereunder.
B. Claim Documents: The Insured Person or
  any such person acting on behalf  of the
   Insured Person, as the case may be, shall be
   required to furnish the following  for or  in
   support of a claim:
 7 B) 1 Benefits & Extensions under Section
A
     1.  In case of Death resulting from Accident
        a) PA Claim form duly filled & signed by
          the nominee
        b)  Policy Copy
        c)  Death    certificate    -   Notarized/
          Attested by a gazetted officer
        d)  F.I.R  -  Notarized/  Attested by a
         gazetted officer
             •  Police Final charge sheet/ Court
             Final order - Notarized/ attested
           by  a  Gazetted   Officer   -    if
             applicable - notarized/ Attested by
          a gazetted officer
        e)  Spot and/or Inquest Panchnama  -
          Notarized/ Attested by a gazetted
            officer
           f)  Post Mortem Report  -  Notarized/
          Attested by a gazetted officer
             •  Viscera     Analysis     Report/
           Chemical     analysis     report/
            Forensic Science Lab report -  If
             applicable - notarized/ Attested by
            gazetted officer]
        g)  Other Document as per Case details
             - Copy  of  Treatment  papers;   if
           hospitalized,    Website     Links/
        Newspaper      cuttings,     Other
          references
        h)   If claim amount is more than 1lakh,
       AML Documents - Pan Card Copy,
         Residence Proof, 2 Passport size
          colour photos of claimant
            i)  Cancel Cheque with NEFT Mandate
         form - duly filled in by the claimant
        and bank
            j)  Any other document as required by
          the Company or Company's TPA to
          investigate   the  Claim   or  Our
           obligation to make payment for it
     2.  In   case   of   Permanent   Total
      Disablement/Permanent       Partial
      Disablement &  Permanent  Total
      Disablement  Improvement  Benefit
      Extension/Permanent         Partial
      Disablement  Improvement  Benefit
      Extension
        a) PA Claim form duly filled & signed by
          Insured/ Claimant
         b)  Policy Copy
         c) MLC OR F.I.R.OR PANCHNAMA-
           Notarised/ Attested by a gazetted
            officer
d)  Disability Certificate issued by Authorised
     civil surgeon- Original/ Notarised/ Attested
   by a gazetted officer
 •  Treatment papers, X-rays films / laboratory
    test reports and other diagnostic reports to
   support  the  claim  and  percentage  of
    disability
e)  Medical report
f)  Colour Photograph of the injured reflecting
    disability
g)   If claim amount> 1lakh, AML Documents -
   Pan Card Copy,
   Residence Proof, 2 Passport size colour
   photos of claimant
h) Other Document as per Case details - Copy
    of  Treatment  papers;     if   hospitalised,
   Website Links/ Newspaper cuttings,
   Other references
i)  Cancel Cheque with NEFT Mandate form -
    duly filled in by the claimant
j)  Any other document as required by the
   Company or Company's TPA to investigate
   the  Claim  or  Our  obligation  to make
   payment for it
3.  In case of Temporary Total Disablement
   resulting from an Injury
a)  Policy Copy
b)  Claim form  duly  filled & signed by the
   claimant
c)  FIR/ MLC - attested by a gazetted officer
d) Copy of treatment papers and diagnostic
    reports     like    Discharge    summary,
    consultation  and  follow-up  records  etc
   (which would support the claim) - attested
   by a gazetted officer/ stamped by hospital
    authority
e)  Original   Medical   Certificate   [Medical
    Practitioner's   certificate  confirming  the
    Injury and advising rest/ unfit to work for
    specified number of days (confirming  'to'
   and 'from' date]
f)  Original  Fitness  Certificate   -  (Medical
    Practitioner's certificate confirming the date
   from which Injured can join back his duties)
     - after the fitness date has been achieved
  g)  Original Employee Cum Leave Certificate
    from the employer
  h)   If claim amount is more than 1lakh, AML
    Documents  - Pan Card Copy, Residence
     Proof, 2 Passport size colour photos  of
     claimant  Cancel  Cheque  and  NEFT
    Mandate form - duly filled in by the claimant
  i)  Any other document as required by the
    Company or Company's TPA to investigate
     the  Claim  or  Our  obligation  to make
    payment for it
4.  Carriage of dead body / funeral expenses
     / repatriation of remains
   i)  Documents as enumerated under Section 7
     B1(i) of the Policy related to lnsured
     Person's death
   ii)  Original receipts of expenses incurred for
     carriage of dead body / funeral expenses /
     repatriation of remains
   iii)  If claim amount is more than 1lakh, AML
    Documents  - Pan Card Copy, Residence
     Proof, 2 Passport size colour photos  of
     claimant
  iv) Cancel Cheque and NEFT Mandate form -
     duly filled in by the claimant
  v)  Any other document as required by the
    Company or Company's TPA to investigate
     the  Claim  or  Our  obligation  to make
    payment for it
  5.  Medical Benefit
  a)  Policy Copy
  b)  All documents related to Death/ PTD / PPD/
    TTD, as the case may be
  c)  Medical report
  d)  Prescriptions
  e)  Medical & Investigation Bills
  f)  Discharge Card
  g)   If claim amount is more than 1lakh, AML
    Documents  - Pan Card Copy, Residence
     Proof, 2 Passport size colour photos  of
     claimant
  h)  Cancel Cheque and NEFT Mandate form -
     duly filled in by the claimant
   i)  Any other document as required by the
    Company or Company's TPA to investigate
     the  Claim  or  Our  obligation  to make
    payment for it
 6  Hospital Daily Allowance
a)  All documents related to Death/ PTD / PPD/
   TTD, as the case may be
b)  Discharge Card
c)   If claim amount is more than 1lakh, AML
   Documents  - Pan Card Copy, Residence
   Proof, 2 Passport size colour photos  of
   claimant
d) Cancel Cheque and NEFT Mandate form -
   duly filled in by the claimant
e) Any other document as required by the
   Company or Company's TPA to investigate
   the  Claim  or  Our  obligation  to make
   payment for it
7.  Children Education Grant
a)  All documents related to accidental death/
   PTD, as the case may be
b)  Letter from Head / Principal or Identity Card
    of School attended by the child(ren)
c)   If claim amount is more than 1lakh, AML
   Documents  - Pan Card Copy, Residence
   Proof, 2 Passport size colour photos  of
   claimant
d) Cancel Cheque and NEFT Mandate form -
   duly filled in by the claimant
e) Any other document as required by the
   Company or Company's TPA to investigate
   the  Claim  or  Our  obligation  to make
   payment for it
8. Ambulance Charges
a)  Policy Copy
b)  Claim form  duly  filled & signed by the
   claimant
c)  Original receipts of expenses incurred for
   Ambulance Charges
d)   If claim amount is more than 1lakh, AML
   Documents  - Pan Card Copy, Residence
   Proof, 2 Passport size colour photos  of
   claimant
e)  Cancel Cheque and NEFT Mandate form -
   duly filled in by the claimant
f)  Any other document as required by the
   Company or Company's TPA to investigate
   the  Claim  or  Our  obligation  to make
   payment for it
   7B) 2 Benefits under Section B
1.  Policy Copy
2.  Claim form  duly  filled & signed by the
   claimant
3.  F.I.R. and Panchnama wherever applicable
    (original or certified copies)
4.  Medical & Investigation report
5.  Prescriptions
6.  Medical & Investigation Bills
7.  Discharge Card
8.   If claim amount  is more than 1lakh, AML
   Documents  - Pan Card Copy, Residence
    Proof, 2  Passport  size  colour photos  of
   claimant                                              V
9.  Cancel Cheque and NEFT Mandate form -
   duly filled in by the claimant                                                       1
10. Any  other document as  required by  the
   Company or Company's TPA to investigate
   the Claim or Our obligation to make payment
    for it
C.  Method of Assessment and Payment of
   claim
   For a Policy with Policy Period greater than
   one year, the Sum Insured considered for
   assessment of claim shall be the Sum Insured
   mentioned against the Policy Year of the
   occurrence of the Accident. In the event that        2
   a claim becomes payable under the terms of
   the Policy, the Company shall make such
   payment in a lump sum amount or periodical
    installments as opted  for by the Insured
   Person/ Policyholder by way of cheque or
    electronic fund transfer or demand draft at the
   option of the Company.
   Settlement/Rejection   of   Claim   -The
   settlement of claims would be done by Us
    within 15   days  after the  receipt  of  last
   necessary documents, any rejections if done,
   would be provided with proper reasons by Us.
   The role of the TPA (if any) would be limited
    to facilitate the flow of information between        3
   You and Us.
D.  Limitation period
    In no case whatsoever shall the Company be
    liable, for any claim intimated to the Company
    after the expiry of 30 days from the date of
   occurrence  of Insured Event  or  after the
    expiry  of  15  days  from  the  date  of
   commencement of Hospitalisation.
  Unless the claim  is the subject of pending
  action or arbitration; it being expressly agreed
  and declared that if the Company shall disclaim
   liability for any claim hereunder and such claim
   date of disclaimer have been made the subject
   matter of a suit in court of law then the claim for
     all such purposes be deemed to have been
   abandoned  and  shall  not  thereafter  be
   recoverable hereunder.
   NOTE: Please inform us immediately of any
   change in the address, occupation, state of
    health, or of any other changes affecting any
   Insured Person.


VI. POLICY   RELATED   TERMS   AND
   CONDITIONS
1.  Upon the happening of any event, which may
    give rise to a claim under this Policy, written
    notice with full particulars must be given to the
   Company  immediately.  In  case  of  death,
    written notice must be given before internment,
   cremation and in any case, within one calendar
   month  after  the  death,  unless  reasonable
   cause is shown. In the event of loss of sight or
   amputation of limbs, written notice thereof must
   be given within one calendar month after such
    loss of sight or amputation.
2.  Proof satisfactory to the Company shall be
   furnished of all matters upon which a claim is
   based. Any medical or other agent  of the
   Company  shall be allowed to examine the
   Insured Person(s) on the occasion  of any
   alleged Injury or disablement when and as
    often as the same may reasonably be required
   on behalf of the Company and in the event of
   death to make a post-mortem examination of
   the body of the Insured Person. Such evidence
   as the Company may from time to time require
    shall  be  furnished  and  a  post-mortem
   examination  report, be  furnished  within a
   period of thirty days.
3.  In the event of a claim in respect of Loss of Use
    of one or both the eyes/ Loss of Use of one or
   both the ears, the Insured Person(s)  shall
   undergo at the Insured Person's expense such
   operation or treatment as the Company may
   reasonably deem desirable. In the event the
    sight/  hearing  is  not  regained  after such
   operation or treatment, and such Loss of Use
    of one or both the eyes/ Loss of Use of one or
   both  the  ears  is  of a permanent  nature,
   compensation shall be payable as specified in
   the "Basis of Assessment of claims" in Part II
    of the Schedule to this Policy.
        4.  Position after a claim:
a)  In  case  of  Death  or  Permanent  Total
   Disablement  (as  specified  in  Basis  of
   Assessment) the Company shall delete the
   name of the Insured Person in respect of
  whom such sums shall become payable
   from Part  I of the Schedule to this Policy
    without any refund of the premium and that
   person be no longer be covered under the
    policy and consequently no further benefit
    shall accrue to such Insured Person.
b)  In cases excepting as in 4 (a) above, the
   Company shall reduce the Sum Insured in
   respect of Insured Person to whom such
   sum shall become payable, by the amount
   admissible under the claim. However the
   Company's liability for payment in aggregate
    for  all claims under  other  section(s)  or
   endorsement(s)  for  Policy  Period/Policy
   Year  in no case  shall exceed the Sum
   Insured as indicated against the section(s)
    or endorsement(s) as mentioned in Part I of
    the Schedule to this Policy.
5.  a) The Policyholder shall give immediate
    notice to the Company of any change in any
    of the business or occupation of any of the
   Insured Persons.
b) The Policyholder  shall on tendering any
   premium for the renewal of this Policy give
    notice in writing to the Company of any
    disease, physical defect or  infirmity with
   which any of the Insured Person(s) have
   become affected since the payment of the
    last preceding premium.
6. The scope of cover shall extend on a
   worldwide basis unless mentioned
    otherwise.
7. Terms of Renewal
a)  The Policy can be renewed under the then
    prevailing Personal Protect or its nearest
    substitute (in case the Personal Protect is
   withdrawn by the Company)
b)  This policy shall ordinarily be renewable
   except on grounds of established fraud, or
   misrepresentation or non-cooperation by
    the insured
c)  Renewal Premium - Premium payable on
   renewal and on subsequent continuation
    of cover are subject to
d) Maximum Renewal Age - There will be life-
   long renewal without any age restriction for
   h
   PART III OF THE SCHEDULE
  GENERAL   TERMS   &   CLAUSES
   SPECIFIC TERMS AND CLAUSES
1.  Incontestability and Duty of Disclosure
   The Policy shall be null and void and no
    benefit shall be payable  in the event of
    untrue     or     incorrect     statements,
    misrepresentation, mis- description or on
    non-disclosure in any material particular in
    the  proposal  form,  personal  statement,
    declaration and connected documents, or
   any  material  information  having  been
    withheld, or a claim being fraudulent or any
    fraudulent means or devices being used by
    the Insured Person or any one acting on his
    behalf  to  obtain any  benefit under  this
    Policy.
2.  Reasonable Care
   The   Insured  Person   shall   take    all
   reasonable steps to safeguard the interests
    of the Insured against accidental loss that
   may give rise to the claim.
3.  Observance of terms and conditions
   The due observance and fulfillment of the
    terms, conditions and endorsement of this
    Policy in so far as they relate to anything to
   be done or complied with by the Insured
   Person, shall be a condition precedent to
   any liability of the Company to make any
   payment under this Policy.
4.  Material change
   The Insured Person shall immediately notify
    the Company  in  writing  of any material
   change in the risk and cause at his own
   expense such additional precautions to be
   taken as circumstances may  require  to
   ensure safe operation, trade or business
    practices    thereby    containing    the
   circumstances that may give  rise to the
    claim and the Company may, adjust the
   scope  of  cover  and   /  or  premium,   if
    necessary, accordingly.

5.  Records to be maintained
   The Insured Person shall keep an accurate
    record containing all relevant particulars and
    shall allow the Company to inspect such
    record.
6. No constructive Notice
    Any  knowledge  or  information  of  any
    circumstances or condition  in connection
     with the Insured Person in possession of
    any official of the Company shall not be the
     notice to or be held to bind or prejudicially
     affect   the  Company   notwithstanding
    subsequent acceptance of any premium.
  7.  Notice of charge etc.
    The Company shall not be bound to take
     notice or be affected by any notice of any
      trust,  charge,  lien, assignment  or  other
     dealing with or relating to this Policy, but the
    payment by the Company to the Insured
    Person or his legal representative of any
    compensation or benefit under the Policy
     shall in all cases be an effectual discharge
     to the Company.
  8.  Overriding  effect  of  Part   II  of  the
    Schedule
    The terms and conditions contained herein
    and in Part II of the Schedule to this Policy
     shall be deemed to form part of the Policy
    and shall be read as if they are specifically
     incorporated herein; however in case of any
     inconsistency of any term and condition with
     the scope of cover contained in Part II of the
    Schedule to this Policy, then the term(s) and
     condition(s) contained herein shall be read
     mutatis  mutandis  with  the  scope   of
     cover/terms and  conditions contained  in
     Part  II of the Schedule to this Policy and
     shall be deemed to be modified accordingly
     or superseded  in case  of  inconsistency
    being irreconcilable.
  9.  Duties  of  the  Insured  Person  on
    occurrence of loss
 On the occurrence of any loss, within the scope
  of cover under the Policy the Insured Person
  shall:
      a)  Forthwith  file/submit a  claim form  in
       accordance with 'Basis of Assessment of
        Claim' Clause as provided in Part II of the
       Schedule to this Policy.
      b)  Allow the surveyor or any agent of the
      Company  to  inspect  the  damaged
       Insured Asset.
c)  Assist and not hinder or prevent the Company
   or  any  of   its  agents  from  taking  any
   reasonable steps in pursuance of their duties
    for ascertaining the admissibility of the Claim
d)  Not abandon the Insured Asset, nor take any
   steps to rectify/remedy the damage before
   the  same  has  been  approved  by  the
  Company or any of its agents or the surveyor.
      If the Insured Person does not comply with
   the  provisions  of  this  Clause  or  other
    obligations cast upon the Insured Person
   under this Policy, in terms of the other clauses
   referred to herein or in terms of the other
   clauses in any of the Policy documents, all
   benefits under the Policy shall be forfeited, at
   the option of the Company.
  10. Position after a claim
  The Insured Person shall not be entitled to
  abandon Insured Asset whether the Company
  has taken possession of the same or not. As
  from the day of receipt of the claim amount by
  the Insured Person as determined by the
 Company to be fit and proper, the Sum Insured
  for the remainder of the Policy Period/Policy
  Year shall stand reduced by the amount of the
  compensation.
  11. Fraudulent claims
   If any claim is in any respect fraudulent, or  if
  any false statement, or declaration is made or
  used in support thereof, or  if any fraudulent
 means or devices are used by the Insured
  Person or anyone acting on his behalf to obtain
  any benefit under this Policy, or  if a claim is
 made and rejected and no court action or suit
  is commenced within twelve months after such
  rejection or, in case of arbitration taking place
  as provided therein, within twelve (12) calendar
  months after the Arbitrator or Arbitrators have
 made their award, all benefits under this Policy
  shall be forfeited.
  12. Contribution
   If at the time when any Claim arises under this
  Policy, there  is any other insurance which
  covers (or would but for the existence of this
  Policy) and the amount to be claimed exceeds
  the sum insured under a single policy after
  considering the deductibles or co-pay, in the
 same Claim (in whole or in part), then We shall
  not be liable to pay or contribute more than Our
  rateable proportion of any Claim. However, this
  condition shall not be applicable for  all the
  benefit based covers under the  Policy, as
  applicable
  13. Free Look Up period
 Look Period) from the date of receipt of the
 Policy  to review  its terms and  conditions.
Where the Policy Holder disagrees to any of
 the terms or conditions of the Policy, he has the
 option to return the Policy stating the reasons
 for his objection, when he shall be entitled to a
 refund of the premium paid, subject only to a
 deduction of the expenses incurred by Us on
 the stamp duty charges. In case the request for
 cancellation comes 30 days after the Policy
 Period start date, pro-rata refund of premium
 would be paid to You
14. Cancellation/ Termination
  a)  Disclosure  to  information norm  - The
     Policy shall be void and all premium paid
    hereon shall be forfeited to the Company,
      in the event  of misrepresentation, mis-
     description  or  non-disclosure  of  any
                                                           1     material fact.
  b)  The Insured Person may also give 7 days
     notice in writing, to the Company, for the
     cancellation of this Policy, in which case
     the Company shall from the date of receipt
     of notice cancel the Policy and refund the
    premium  for the period  this Policy has
    been  in  force as  per  the  refund  grid
     applicable.
   (a) Refund Grid applicable to Policies having
     policy period lesser than or equal to one
     year:
                                                           1
   Period    of    Percentage     premium
    risk            refunded
  Up   to  1   75%
   month*
  Up   to  3   50%
   months
  Up   to  6   25%
   months
   Exceeding 6    NIL
   months
 * Not  applicable  for  policies  with  freelook
 period;  Premium  refund  for  cancellations
 during the freelook period will be provided as
 per the Free look clause
 (b):

   % Refund Premium
     Policy Period (Years)
    Year of Cancellation    2        3
    Year 1            25%    45%
       Year 2                   11%
       Year 3
  No refunds of premium shall be made under the
    Policy during the last year of the Policy Period
   Upon making any refund of premium under this
    Policy  in accordance  with  the  terms and
    conditions hereof  in respect of the Insured
   Person, the cover and Company's liability in
   respect of that Insured Person shall forthwith
    terminate.
   Notwithstanding anything contained herein or
   otherwise, no refunds of premium  shall be
   made in respect of the Insured Person where
   any claim has been admitted by the Company
    or has been lodged with the Company or any
    benefit has been availed by the Insured Person
   under the policy.
15. Policy Disputes
      It has been agreed between the parties that
   any dispute concerning the interpretation of the
   terms, conditions, limitations and/or exclusions
   contained herein is understood and agreed to
   be adjudicated or interpreted in accordance
    with Indian Laws and only competent Indian
   courts shall have the exclusive jurisdiction to try
     all  or any matters  arising hereunder. The
   matter shall be determined or adjudicated in
   accordance with the law and practice of such
   Court.

16. Arbitration clause
      If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the
   quantum to be paid under this Policy (liability
   being otherwise admitted) such difference shall
   independently of all other questions be referred
    to the  decision  of a sole  arbitrator  to be
   appointed  in  writing by the  parties  to the
    dispute/difference, or if they cannot agree upon
   a single arbitrator within 30 days of any party
   invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred
    to a panel of three arbitrators, comprising of
   two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of
   the parties to the dispute/difference and the
    third arbitrator to be appointed by such two
    arbitrators.  Arbitration  shall  be  conducted
   under and in accordance with the provisions of
   the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. It is
    clearly  agreed  and  understood  that  no
    difference  or dispute  shall be  referable  to
    arbitration, as hereinbefore provided,   if the
   Company has disputed or not accepted liability
   under or in respect of this Policy. It is hereby
    expressly stipulated and declared that  it shall
   be a condition precedent to any right of action
    or suit upon this Policy that the award by such
    arbitrator/ arbitrators of the amount of the loss
    shall be first obtained
17. Migration: In case of migration of this policy with the
    Company, the insured can transfer the credits gained to
    the extent of the Sum Insured and benefits available in
    the previous policy to the migrated policy. The Company
   may underwrite the proposal in case of migration, if the
     insured is not continuously covered for 36 months.

18. Renewal notice
 i)  Renewal notice for policies not issued on Auto
   Renewal Basis: The Company shall ordinarily
   renew  the  policy  except  on  grounds  of,
    misrepresentation or eastablised fraud or non
    cooperation by the Insured. Every renewal
   premium (which shall be paid and accepted in
    respect of this Policy) shall be so paid and
   accepted upon the distinct understanding that
   no  alteration has taken place  in the  facts
    contained in the proposal or declaration herein
    before mentioned and that nothing is known to
    the Insured Person that may result to enhance
    the risk of the Company under the guarantee
   hereby given. No renewal receipt shall be valid
    unless it is on the printed form of the Company
   and signed by an authorised  official of the
   Company. Any change  in the  risk  will be
    intimated  to  the Company by the Insured
   Person. Nothing mentioned herein or otherwise
    shall affect the Company's right to impose any
    additional terms and conditions on renewal or
     restrict any renewal terms as to premium or
    otherwise. The Policy can be renewed except
   on   grounds    of,   misrepresentation   or
    eastablised fraud or non cooperation by the
    Insured.and   in  such  event  the  renewal
   premium shall be paid to the Company on or
    before the date of expiry of the Policy and in no
   case later than Grace Period of 30 days from
    the expiry of the Policy. The Company shall
   condone a delay in renewal up to the grace
    period from the due date of renewal without
    considering such condonation as a break in
    policy.
 ii)   Renewal notice for policies issued on Auto
   Renewal   Basis:   The  Company    shall
    automatically renew the Policy annually for the
    period  it has been issued  for. However on
  auto renewal period Every renewal premium
  (which shall be paid and accepted in respect of
  this Policy) shall be so paid and accepted upon
  the distinct understanding that no alteration
  has taken place in the facts contained in the
  proposal   or   declaration   herein   before
  mentioned and that nothing is known to the
  Insured Person that may result to enhance the
  risk  of the Company under the guarantee
  hereby given. No renewal receipt shall be valid
  unless it is on the printed form of the Company
  and signed by an authorised  official of the
  Company. Any change  in the  risk  will be
  intimated  to  the Company by the Insured
  Person.  Nothing  herein  or  otherwise  shall
  affect the Company's  right  to impose any
  additional terms and conditions on renewal or
  restrict any renewal terms as to premium or
  otherwise. The Policy can be renewed except
  on   grounds    of,   misrepresentation   or
  eastablised fraud or non cooperation by the
  Insured.and   in  such  event  the  renewal
  premium shall be paid to the Company on or
  before the date of expiry of the Policy and in no
  case later than Grace Period of 30 days from
  the expiry of the Policy. The Company shall
  condone a delay in renewal up to the grace
  period from the due date of renewal without
  considering such condonation as a break in
  policy.
iii) Withdrawal of Policy
      i.  ln  the  likelihood  of  this product being
   withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate
   the insured person about the same 90 days
    prior to expiry of the policy.
      ii. lnsured Person  will have the option to
   migrate to similar health insurance product
   available with the Company at the time of
   renewal  with   all  the  accrued  continuity
   benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver of
   waiting periodas per regulatory prescriptions,
   provided the  policy has been maintained
   without a break.


  Moratorium period
  "After completion of sixty continuous months of
  coverage (including portability and migration)
  in health insurance policy, no policy and claim
  shall be  contestable by  the company on
  grounds of non-disclosure, misrepresentation,
  except on grounds of established fraud. This
  period of sixty continuous months is called as
   moratorium period. The moratorium would be
    applicable for the sums insured of the  first
    policy.  Wherever,   the  sum  insured   is
   enhanced,  completion  of  sixty  continuous
   months would be applicable from the date of
   enhancement of sums insured only on the
   enhanced limits."
19. Notices
   Any notice, direction or instruction given under
    this Policy shall be in writing and delivered by
   hand, post, or facsimile  to: In case of the
   Insured Person, at the address specified in Part
   1 of the Schedule.
    In case of the Company:
   ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company
    Limited,  ICICI Lombard House,  414, Veer
   Savarkar Marg, Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple,
   Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400 025.
   Notice and instructions will be deemed served
   7 days  after  posting  or immediately upon
    receipt in the case of hand delivery, facsimile
    or e- mail.
20. Customer Service
      If at any time the Insured Person requires any
    clarification or assistance, the Insured Person
  may contact the offices of the Company at the
   address  specified,  during normal  business
   hours.
21. Grievances
    In case of any grievance the insured person
  may contact the Company through
   Website: www.icicilombard.com Toll free: 1800
   2666                                  Email:
   customersupport@icicilombard.com
   ICICI Lombard General Insurance Co.  Ltd.
   Ground floor- Interface 11, Sixth floor- Interface
   16 ,
    Office no 601 & 602, New linking Road, Malad
   (West), Mumbai – 400064


   There is an interactive voice response (IVR)
     facility for senior citizens’ grievance redressal
    for easy and faster resolution


   lnsured  person  may  also  approach  the
   grievance  cell  at  any  of  the  company's
   branches with the details of grievance. For
   branch        details,       please         visit
https://www.icicilombard.com/docs/default
source/policy-wordings-product-brochure/final-
gro-mapping.pdf.


lf lnsured person  is not  satisfied  with the
redressal of grievance ,insured person may
contact the grievance redressal officer at the
details provided in the below link:


https://www.icicilombard.com/grievanceredres
sal.com


lf lnsured person  is not  satisfied  with the
redressal of grievance, the insured person may
also  approach  Insurance  Regulatory  and
Development   Authority   of   India  (IRDAI)
through   the  Bima   Bharosa   Portal    -
https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/     or  IRDA
Grievance Call Centre(IGCC) at their toll free
no. 1800 4254 732 / 155255


Insured  may   also  approach   Insurance
Ombudsman, subject to vested jurisdiction, for
the redressal of grievance. Details of Insurance
Ombudsman offices are available at IRDAI
website:   www.irdai.gov.in,   or   on   the
Company’s website at www.icicilombard.com
or on https://www.cioins.co.in/Ombudsman
Insured  may   also  approach   Insurance
Ombudsman, subject to vested jurisdiction, for
the redressal of grievance. Details of Insurance
Ombudsman  offices are  available  at IRDA
website:   www.irdaindia.org,   or  on   the
Company’s website at www.icicilombard.com.
Details of Insurance Ombudsman can also be
accessed       from        the          link-
https://www.cioins.co.in/Ombudsman
If the issue still remains unresolved, You may,
subject   to  vested   jurisdiction,  approach
Insurance Ombudsman for the redressal of the
grievance.   The    details    of   Insurance
Ombudsman are available below:

                                      Territorial Area   Name   of   office   of
S  insurance                   of jurisdiction
 r.  Ombudsman
N
o.
                                Gujarat, Dadra1.   AHMEDABAD
