CHAPTER 1 - STANDARD FORM FOR PRIVATE CAR
PACKAGE POLICY
Whereas the insured by a proposal and declaration dated as
stated in the Schedule which shall be the basis of this contract
and is deemed to be incorporated herein has applied to the
Company for the insurance hereinafter contained and has paid
the premium mentioned in the schedule as consideration for
such insurance in respect of accidental loss or damage occurring
during the period of insurance.

NOW THIS POLICY WITNESSETH
That subject to the Terms Exceptions and Conditions contained
herein or endorsed or expressed hereon;

SECTION I. LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO THE VEHICLE INSURED
1.   The Company will indemnify the insured against loss or
    damage to the vehicle insured hereunder and/or  its
     accessories whilst thereon
I.   By ﬁre explosion self ignition or lightning;

II.   By burglary housebreaking or theft;

III.   By riot and strike;

IV.  By earthquake (ﬁre and shock damage);

V.   By ﬂood typhoon hurricane storm tempest inundation
     cyclone hailstorm frost;

VI.  By accidental external means;

VII.  By malicious act;

VIII. By terrorist activity;

IX.   Whilst in transit by road rail inland-waterway lift elevator
      or air;

X.   By landslide rockslide.

Subject to a deduction for depreciation at the rates mentioned
below in respect of parts replaced :
I.    For  all rubber/nylon/plastic parts, tyres and tubes,
      batteries and air bags-50%

II.    For ﬁbre glass components-30%

III.   For all parts made of glass-Nil

IV.   Rate of depreciation for all other parts including wooden
     parts will be as per the following schedule.
  AGE OF THE VEHICLE     % OF DEPRECIATION

   Not exceeding 6 months                    Nil
   Exceeding 6 months but not
   exceeding 1 year               5%

   Exceeding 1 year but not
   exceeding 2 years               10%
   Exceeding 2 years but not
   exceeding 3 years               15%

   Exceeding 3 years but not
   exceeding 4 years               25%
   Exceeding 4 years but not
   exceeding 5 years               35%

   Exceeding 5 years but not
   exceeding 10 years              40%
   Exceeding 10 years              50%
V.   Rate of Depreciation for Painting: In the case of painting,
     the depreciation rate of 50% shall be applied only on the
     material cost of total painting charges. In case of a
     consolidated  bill for painting charges,the material
     component shall be considered as 25% of the total
     painting charges for the purpose of applying the
      depreciation.
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment in respect
of:-
a.   Consequential loss, depreciation, wear and tear,
     mechanical or electrical breakdown, failures or breakages;
b.   Damage to tyres and tubes unless the vehicle is damaged
      at the same time in which case the liability of the company
      shall be limited to 50%of the cost of replacement and
c.   Any accidental loss or damage suffered whilst the insured
      or any person driving the vehicle with the knowledge and
     consent of the insured is under the inﬂuence of intoxicating
      liquor or drugs.
In the event of the vehicle being disabled by reason of loss or
damage covered under this Policy the Company will bear the
reasonable cost of protection and removal to the nearest
repairer and redelivery to the insured but not exceeding in all
`1500/-in respect of any one accident.
The insured may authorise the repair of the vehicle necessitated
by damage for which the Company may be liable under this
Policy provided that :
a.   The estimated cost of such repair including replacements,
         if any, does not exceed ` 500/-;
b.   The Company  is furnished forthwith with a detailed
     estimate of the cost of repairs; and
c.   The insured shall give the Company every assistance to
     see that such repair is necessary and the charges are
     reasonable.

2.   POLICY PERIOD

Means the period commencing from policy start date and hour
and terminating on the policy and date and hour as speciﬁed in
part I of schedule of the policy.

3.  SUM INSURED, INSURED’S DECLARED VALUE (IDV)

The Insured's Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle will be deemed to
be the 'SUM INSURED’ for the purpose of this policy which is ﬁxed
at the commencement of each policy period for the insured vehicle.
The IDV of the vehicle (and accessories, if any, ﬁtted to the vehicle)
is to be ﬁxed on the basis of the manufacturer's listed selling price
of the brand and model as the insured vehicle at the
commencement of insurance/ renewal and would subsequently
change as per depreciation grid below for each one year block
within the policy period for the insured vehicle. All ages of vehicle
subject to valid ﬁtness certiﬁcate as required under the law would
be covered by the aforementioned product. The IDV arrived as per
the above method may also be increased or decreased basis
various factors like Location, usage, road type/ terrain etc. with
agreement of the insured. The schedule of age- wise depreciation
as shown below is applicable for the purpose of Total Loss/
Constructive Total Loss (TL/CTL) /Cash Loss claims only.

THE SCHEDULE OF DEPRECIATION FOR FIXING IDV OF THE
VEHICLE

 AGE OF THE VEHICLE      % OF DEPRECIATION
                           FOR FIXING IDV
 Not exceeding 6 months             5%
 Exceeding 6 months but not           15%
 exceeding 1 year
 Exceeding 1 year but not             20%
 exceeding 2 years
 Exceeding 2 years but not            30%
 exceeding 3 years
 Exceeding 3 years but not            40%
 exceeding 4 years
 Exceeding 4 years but not            50%
 exceeding 5 years

IDV of vehicles beyond 5 years of age and of obsolete models of
the vehicles  (i.e. models which the manufacturers have
discontinued to manufacture) is to be determined on the basis of
an understanding between the insurer and the insured.

IDV shall be treated as the ‘Market Value’ throughout the policy
period without any further depreciation for the purpose of Total
Loss (TL)/ Constructive Total Loss (CTL)/Cash Loss claims.

The insured vehicle shall be treated as a CTL if the aggregate
cost of retrieval and/or repair of the vehicle, subject to terms and
conditions of the policy, exceeds 75% of the IDV of the vehicle.
SECTION II - LIABILITY TO THIRD PARTIES
1.      I.   Subject to the limits of liability as laid down in the
        Schedule hereto the Company will indemnify the
         insured in the event of an accident caused by or arising
         out of the use of the vehicle against all sums which the
         insured shall become legally liable to pay in respect of :-
          a.  Death of or bodily injury to any person including
           occupants carried in the vehicle (provided such
           occupants are not carried for hire or reward) but
            except so far as  it  is necessary to meet the
            requirements of Motor Vehicles Act, the Company
              shall not be liable where such death or injury arises
            out of and in the course of the employment of such
           person by the insured.
           b. Damage to property other than property
            belonging to the insured or held in trust or in the
            custody or control of the insured.
         II.  The Company will pay all costs and expenses incurred
         with its written consent.
         III.  In terms of and subject to the limitations of the
         indemnity granted by this section to the insured, the
       Company will indemnify any driver who is driving the
         vehicle on the insured’s order or with insured’s
         permission provided that such driver shall as though
         he/she was the insured observe fulﬁll and be subject to
         the terms exceptions and conditions of this Policy in so
          far as they apply.
      IV.  In the event of the death of any person entitled to
        indemnity under this policy the Company will in
         respect of the liability incurred by such person
         indemnify his/her personal representative in terms of
       and subject to the limitations of this Policy provided
         that such personal representative shall as though
        such representative was the insured observe fulﬁll
       and be subject to the terms exceptions and conditions
          of this Policy in so far as they apply.
     V.  The Company may at its own option
          a.  Arrange for representation at any Inquest or Fatal
             Inquiry in respect of any death which may be the
             subject of indemnity under this Policy and
           b.  Undertake the defence of proceedings in any Court
             of Law in respect of any act or alleged offence
            causing or relating to any event which may be the
             subject of indemnity under this Policy.
2.  AVOIDANCE OF CERTAIN TERMS AND RIGHT OF
   RECOVERY
    Nothing in this Policy or any endorsement hereon shall
     affect the right of any person indemniﬁed by this Policy or
    any other person to recover an amount under or by virtue of
     the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act.
    But the insured shall repay to the Company all sums paid by
     the Company which the Company would not have been
     liable to pay but for the said provisions.
3.  APPLICATION OF LIMITS OF INDEMNITY
         I n the event of any accident involving indemnity to more
    than one person any limitation by the terms of this Policy
     and/or of any Endorsement thereon of the amount of any
    indemnity shall apply to the aggregate amount of
    indemnity to all persons indemniﬁed and such indemnity
     shall apply in priority to the insured.
Section  III - PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER FOR OWNER-
DRIVER
The Company undertakes to pay compensation as per the
following scale for bodily injury/death sustained by the owner-
driver of the vehicle, in direct connection with the vehicle insured
or whilst driving or mounting into/dismounting from the vehicle
insured or whilst traveling in it as a co-driver, caused by violent
accidental external and visible means which independent of
any other cause shall within six calendar months of such injury
result in:

 Nature of injury                          Scale of
                              CompensaƟon
 (I)  Death                         100%
 (ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two       100%
    eyes or one limb and sight of one eye
  (iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye     50%
 (iv) Permanent total disablement from     100%
     injuries other than named above

Provided always that
I.    Compensation shall be payable under only one of the
     items (i) to (iv) above in respect of the owner-driver arising
     out of any one occurrence and the total liability of the
      insurer shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum of ` 15
     lakhs during any one period of insurance.
II.   No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or
      bodily injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising
      or resulting from or traceable to (1) intentional self injury
      suicide or attempted suicide physical defect or inﬁrmity or
      (2) an accident happening whilst such person is under the
     inﬂuence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
III.   Such compensation shall be payable directly to the
     insured or to his/her legal representatives whose receipt
      shall be the full discharge in respect of the injury to the
      insured.
      a. This cover is subject to
                 i.  The owner-driver is the registered owner of the
            vehicle insured herein;
                 ii.  The owner-driver  is the insured named in this
              policy.
                 iii. The owner-driver holds an effective driving license,
              in accordance with the provisions of Rule 3 of the
            Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, at the time of
           the accident.
IV.   The personal accident cover for owner driver is mandatory
      for a period of one year and may be extended, in line with
     the duration of policy, at the discretion of the customer”

Chapter 2 - Exception, Condition & Deductible
1.   GENERAL EXCEPTIONS (Applicable to all Sections of
     the Policy)
The Company shall not be liable under this Policy in respect of
I.   Any accidental loss or damage and/or liability caused
    sustained or incurred outside the geographical area;
II.  Any claim arising out of any contractual liability;
III.  Any accidental loss damage and/or liability caused
    sustained or incurred whilst the vehicle insured herein is
     a.   Being used otherwise than in accordance with the
          ‘Limitations as to Use' or
     b.   Being driven by or is for the purpose of being driven by
         him/her in the charge of any person other than a Driver
        as stated in the Driver’s Clause.
IV.  a.  Any accidental loss or damage to any property
        whatsoever or any loss or expense whatsoever
          resulting or arising there from or any consequential loss
     b.  Any liability of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly
        caused by or contributed to by or arising from ionising
         radiations or contamination by radioactivity from any
         nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste from the
        combustion of nuclear fuel. For the purpose of this
        exception combustion shall include any self-
         sustaining process of nuclear ﬁssion.
V.  Any accidental loss or damage or liability directly or
     indirectly caused by or contributed to by or arising from
    nuclear weapons material.
VI. Any accidental loss damage and/or liability directly or
     indirectly or proximately or remotely occasioned by
    contributed to by or traceable to or arising out of or in
    connection with war, invasion, the act of foreign enemies,
     hostilities or warlike operations (whether before or after
     declaration of war) civil war, mutiny rebellion, military or
    usurped power or by any direct or indirect consequence of
    any of the said occurrences and in the event of any claim
    hereunder the insured shall prove that the accidental loss
   damage and/or liability arose independently of and was in
    no way connected with or occasioned by or contributed to
    by or traceable to any of the said occurrences or any
    consequences thereof and in default of such proof, the
   Company shall not be liable to make any payment in
    respect of such a claim.
2.  DEDUCTIBLE
    The Company shall not be liable for each and every claim
    under Section -I (loss of or damage to the vehicle insured)
     of this Policy in respect of the deductible stated in the
    schedule.
3.  CONDITIONS
    This Policy and the Schedule shall be read together and any
    word or expression to which a speciﬁc meaning has been
    attached in any part of this Policy or of the Schedule shall
    bear the same meaning wherever it may appear.
I.   Notice shall be given in writing to the Company immediately
    upon the occurrence of any accidental loss or damage in the
    event of any claim and thereafter the insured shall give all such
     information and assistance as the Company shall require.
    Every letter claim writ summons and/or process or copy
     thereof shall be forwarded to the Company immediately on
     receipt by the insured. Notice shall also be given in writing to
     the Company immediately the insured shall have knowledge
     of any impending prosecution, inquest or fatal inquiry in
     respect of any occurrence which may give rise to a claim under
     this Policy. In case of theft or criminal act which may be the
     subject of a claim under this Policy the insured shall give
    immediate notice to the police and cooperate with the
    Company in securing the conviction of the offender. Wherever
     details pertaining to any incident which results in a claim, are
    conveyed by the insured to the insurer after reasonable period,
     insured shall provide the reasons of such delay to the insurer
    and insurer may on analysis of reasons provided by insured,
    condone the delay in intimation of claim or delay in providing
     the required information/documents to the insurer.
II.  No admission offer promise payment or indemnity shall be
   made or given by or on behalf of the insured without the
     written consent of the Company which shall be entitled if it so
     desires to take over and conduct in the name of the insured the
    defence or settlement of any claim or to prosecute in the name
     of the insured for its own beneﬁt any claim for indemnity or
    otherwise and shall have full discretion in the conduct of any
    proceedings or in the settlement of any claim and the insured
     shall give all such information and assistance as the Company
   may require.
III.  The Company may at its own option repair reinstate or replace
     the vehicle or part thereof and/or its accessories or may pay in
    cash the amount of the loss or damage and the liability of the
    Company shall not exceed:
     a.   For total loss/constructive total loss/Cash Loss of the
          vehicle-the Insured’s Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle
         (including accessories thereon) as speciﬁed in the
        Schedule less the value of the wreck,  if opted by the
         customer.
   b  For partial losses,  i.e. losses other than Total
         Loss/Constructive Total Loss/Cash Loss of the vehicle
        actual and reasonable costs of repair and/or
       replacement of parts lost/damaged subject to
         depreciation as per limits speciﬁed.
IV.  The insured shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard the
     vehicle from loss or damage and to maintain it in efﬁcient
     condition and the Company shall have at all times free and
      full access to examine the vehicle or any part thereof or any
     driver or employee of the insured. In the event of any
    accident or breakdown, the vehicle shall not be  left
    unattended without proper precautions being taken to
    prevent further damage or loss and if the vehicle be driven
    before the necessary repairs are effected any extension of
    the damage or any further damage to the vehicle shall be
     entirely at the Insured’s own risk.
V.  The policyholder can cancel the policy at any time during
    the term, by informing the insurer. In case the Policyholder
    cancels the policy, he/ she is not required to give reasons for
     cancellation. In such case of cancelation, the insurer will
    refund proportional premium for unexpired policy period, if
    the term of the policy is upto one year and there is no
     claim(s) made during the policy period.
In case the term of the policy is more than 12 months, the insurer
will refund premium for the unexpired policy period, in respect of
policy with the term more than one year and the risk coverage
for such policy years has not commenced. The insurer can
cancel the policy only on the grounds of established fraud, by
giving minimum notice of 7 days to the retail policyholder.
Under no circumstances can the insurer cancel statutory Motor
Third Party Liability insurance or any other compulsory
insurance mandated by law except in case of double insurance
or total loss/Cash loss.
Cancellation due to Total Loss/Cash LossTotal Theft of Vehicle/
Double insurance
•    In the event of lodgement and settlement of a total loss
    claim of any nature including theft and constructive total
     loss/ cash loss, the company will refund the Own damage
    and liability section premium in full for the unexpired years
    (where the risk has not yet incepted). There would no
    refund for the premium related to lapsed years (Risk
    years/12 month periods which have expired before the
     Cancellation effective date) and for the current year where
    the cancellation effective date falls.
•    In the event of cancellation of policy due to double
     insurance, the company will refund the Own damage and
      liability section premium in full for the unexpired years
     (years for which the Risk has not yet incepted). For the year
    where policy is in-force (risk has incepted), premium will be
    refunded as follows:
VI.   If at the time of occurrence of an event that gives rise to any
    claim under this policy there is in existence any other
    insurance covering the same liability, the Company shall
    not be liable to pay or contribute more than its ratable
    proportion of any compensation, cost or expense.

 SR   Scenarios Same Risk start   Different Risk start date
 No.            date (RSD)       (RSD)

                                               First policy        Later
                                   cancelled (on request   policy
                                         of Insured)       Cancelled

   1.  Dual policy  Full Refund        1.Full refund - if        Full
      with similar                  request is received
      cover                        before RSD
      issued by                     2.Proportional
      the                       Refund - If request is
     company                     received after RSD.



   2.  Dual policy  Full Refund - If   Proportional          Proportio
      with        cancellation     Premium Refund      nal
       different    request is                        Premium
                   received within      Insurers                                      Refund
               30 days from
                RSD.
                   Proportional
                  refund - if
                  request is
                   received after 30
                days from RSD.



VII. The due observance and fulﬁllment of the terms, conditions
    and endorsements of this Policy in so far as they relate to
    anything to be done or complied with by the insured and
    the truth of the statements and answers in the said
    proposal shall be conditions precedent to any liability of the
   Company to make any payment under this Policy.
VIII. In the event of the death of the sole insured, this policy will not
    immediately lapse but will remain valid for a period of three
    months from the date of the death of insured or until the
     expiry of this policy (whichever is earlier). During the said
     period, legal heir(s) of the insured to whom the custody and
    use of the Motor Vehicle passes may apply to have this Policy
     transferred to the name(s) of the heir(s) or obtain a new
    insurance policy for the Motor Vehicle. Where such legal
     heir(s) desire(s) to apply for transfer of this policy or obtain a
   new policy for the vehicle such heir(s) should make an
     application to the Company accordingly within the aforesaid
     period. All such applications should be accompanied by:-
Death Certiﬁcate in respect of the insured
Proof of title to the vehicle Original Policy.
4.  NO CLAIM BONUS :
No Claim Bonus, wherever applicable, will be as per the
following table

 ALL TYPES OF VEHICLES     % OF DISCOUNT
                      ON OWN DAMAGE
                         PREMIUM

 No claim made or pending during       20%
 the preceding full year of
 insurance

 No claim made or pending during       25%
 the preceding 2 consecutive years
 of insurance

 No claim made or pending during       35%
 the preceding 3 consecutive years
 of insurance

 No claim made or pending during       45%
 the preceding 4 consecutive years
 of insurance

 No claim made or pending during       50%
 the preceding 5 consecutive years
 of insurance

Sunset Clause : If at the renewal falling due any time between
1st July 2002 and 30th June 2003, both days inclusive, (after
completion of the full policy period of 12 months) an insured
becomes entitled to an NCB of 55% or 65% in terms of the Tariff
prevailing prior to 1st July 2002, the entitlement of such higher
percentage of NCB will remain protected for all subsequent
renewals till a claim arises under the policy, in which case the
NCB will revert to ‘Nil’ at the next renewal. Thereafter, NCB if
any earned, will be in terms of the above table.
CHAPTER 3- INDIA MOTOR TARIFF – ENDORSEMENTS
1.   IMT. 1. Extension of Geographical Area
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of
`...... it is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding
anything contained in this Policy to the contrary the
Geographical Area in this Policy shall from the ..... /......./....... to the
... /... /......(both days inclusive) be deemed to include.*
It is further speciﬁcally understood and agreed that such
geographical extension excludes cover for damage to the
vehicle insured/ injury to its occupants/third party liability in
respect of the vehicle insured during sea voyage/air passage for
the purpose of ferrying the vehicle insured to the extended
geographical area.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
NOTE  : Insert Nepal/ Sri Lanka/Maldives/Bhutan/ Pakistan/
Bangladesh as the case may be.
2.   IMT.2. AGREED VALUE CLAUSE (APPLICABLE ONLY TO
VINTAGE CARS)
It  is hereby declared and agreed that in case of TOTAL
LOSS/CONSTRUCTIVE TOTAL LOSS/CASH LOSS of the
Vintage Car insured hereunder due to a peril insured against,
the amount payable will be the Insured’s Declared Value (IDV)
of the vehicle as mentioned in the Policy without deduction of
any depreciation.
It is further declared and agreed that in case of partial loss to the
vehicle, depreciation on parts replaced will be as stated in
Section I of the Policy. Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions
conditions and limitations of this Policy.
3.   IMT. 3. TRANSFER OF INTEREST
It is hereby understood and agreed that as from  ...../...../.....
the interest in the policy is transferred to and vested in .......of
carrying on or engaged in the business or profession of
who shall be deemed to be the insured and whose proposal and
declaration dated  ....../........./....... shall be deemed to be
incorporated in and to be the basis of this contract.
Provided always that for the purpose of the No Claim Bonus, no
period during which the interest in this policy has been vested in
any previous Insured shall accrue to the beneﬁt of.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
4   IMT. 4. Change of Vehicle
It is hereby understood and agreed that as from  ....../........./......
the vehicle bearing Registration Number  is deemed to be
deleted from the Schedule of the Policy and the vehicle with
details speciﬁed hereunder is deemed to be included therein-

Re  Engine/  Make   Type   C.C.  Year of     Seating   IDV
gd  Chassis           of         Manufactu  Capacity
 No.  No.            Body        re          Including
                                                  Driver





In consequence of this change, an extra/refund premium of `.......
is charged/allowed to the insured.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
5.   IMT. 5. HIRE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
It is hereby understood and agreed that ................... (hereinafter
referred to as the Owners) are the Owners of the vehicle insured
and that the vehicle insured is subject of an Hire Purchase
Agreement made between the Owners on the one part and the
insured on the other part and  it is further understood and
agreed that the Owners are interested in any monies which but
for this Endorsement would be payable to the insured under this
policy in respect of such loss or damage to the vehicle insured as
cannot be made good by repair and/or replacement of parts and
such monies shall be paid to the Owners as long as they are the
Owners of the vehicle insured and their receipt shall be a full and
ﬁnal discharge to the insurer in respect of such loss or damage.
It is further declared and agreed that for the purpose of the
Personal Accident Cover for the owner-driver granted under this
policy, the insured named in the policy will continue to be
deemed as the owner-driver subject to compliance of provisions
of the policy relating to this cover.
Save as by this Endorsement expressly agreed nothing herein
shall modify or affect the rights and liabilities of the insured or
the insurer respectively under or in connection with this Policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
6.   IMT. 6. LEASE AGREEMENT
It is hereby understood and agreed that ................... (hereinafter
referred to as the Lessors) are the Owners of the vehicle insured
and that the vehicle insured is the subject of a Lease Agreement
made between the Lessor on the one part and the insured on the
other part and it is further understood and agreed that the
Lessors are interested in any monies which but for this
Endorsement would be payable to the insured under this policy
in respect of such loss or damage to the vehicle insured as
cannot be made good by repair and/or replacement of parts and
such monies shall be paid to the Lessors as long as they are the
Owners of the vehicle insured and their receipt shall be a full and
ﬁnal discharge to the insurer in respect of such loss or damage. It
is also understood and agreed that notwithstanding any
provision in the Leasing Agreement to the contrary, this policy is
issued to the insured namely  ................... as the principal party
and not as agent or trustee and nothing herein contained shall
be construed as constituting the insured an agent or trustee for
the Lessors or as an assignment (whether legal or equitable) by
the insured to the Lessors, of his rights beneﬁts and claims
under this policy and further nothing herein shall be construed
as creating or vesting any right in the Owner/Lessor to sue the
insurer in any capacity whatsoever for any alleged breach of its
obligations hereunder.
It is further declared and agreed that for the purpose of the
Personal Accident Cover for the owner-driver granted under this
policy, the insured named in the policy will continue to be
deemed as the owner-driver subject to compliance of provisions
of the policy relating to this cover.
Save as by this Endorsement expressly agreed nothing herein
shall modify or affect the rights and liabilities of the insured or
the insurer respectively under or in connection with this Policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
7.   IMT. 7. Vehicles subject to Hypothecation Agreement
It is hereby declared and agreed that the vehicle insured is
pledged to/hypothecated with ...................(hereinafter referred to
as the Pledgee) and it is further understood and agreed that the
Pledgee  is interested in any monies which but for this
Endorsement would be payable to the insured under this policy
in respect of such loss or damage to the vehicle insured as
cannot be made good by repair and/or replacement of parts and
such monies shall be paid to the Pledgee as long as they are the
Pledgee of the vehicle insured and their receipt shall be a full and
ﬁnal discharge to the insurer in respect of such loss or damage.
It is further declared and agreed that for the purpose of the
Personal Accident Cover for the owner-driver granted under this
policy, the insured named in the policy will continue to be
deemed as the owner-driver subject to compliance of provisions
of the policy relating to this cover.
Save as by this Endorsement expressly agreed that nothing
herein shall modify or affect the rights or liabilities of the Insured
or the Insurer respectively under or in connection with this Policy
or any term, provision or condition thereof.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
8.   IMT. 8. DISCOUNT FOR MEMBERSHIP OF RECOGNISED
AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATIONS (PRIVATE CARS AND
MOTORISED TWO WHEELERS ONLY)
It is hereby understood and agreed that in consideration of
insured’s membership of ......** a discount in premium of `..........*
is allowed to the insured hereunder from ... /... /....... It is further
understood and agreed that  if the insured ceases to be a
member of the above mentioned association during the
currency of this Policy the insured shall immediately notify the
insurer accordingly and refund to the insurer a proportionate
amount of the discount allowed on this account for the
unexpired period of the cover.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of the policy
* For full policy period, the full tariff discount to be inserted. For
mid-term membership, prorata proportion of the tariff discount
for the unexpired policy period is to be inserted.
** Insert name of the concerned Automobile Association.
9.   IMT. 9. DISCOUNT FOR VINTAGE CARS (Applicable to
Private Cars only)
It is hereby understood and agreed that in consideration of the
insured car having been certiﬁed as a Vintage Car by the
Vintage and Classic Car Club of India, a discount of
` ......................* is allowed to the insured from ........ /......... /...........
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of the policy
*Amount calculated as per tariff provision is to be inserted. For
mid-term certiﬁcation as Vintage Car pro-rata proportion of
tariff discount for the unexpired period is to be inserted.
10.  IMT. 10. INSTALLATION OF ANTI-THEFT DEVICE (Not
applicable to Motor Trade Policies)
In consideration of certiﬁcation by___* that an Anti-Theft device
approved by Automobile Research Association of India (ARAI),
Pune has been installed in the vehicle insured herein a premium
discount of `_____**is hereby allowed to the insured.
It is hereby understood and agreed that the insured shall ensure
at all times that this Anti-theft device installed in the vehicle
insured is maintained in efﬁcient condition till the expiry of this
policy. Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions
and limitations of the policy
* The name of the certifying Automobile Association is to be
inserted.
** Premium discount calculated as per tariff provision is to be
inserted. For mid-term certiﬁcation of installation of Anti Theft
device pro-rata proportion of tariff discount for the unexpired
period is to be inserted.
11. VEHICLES LAID UP
A.   IMT. 11. A. VEHICLES LAID UP (Lay up period declared)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is
hereby understood and agreed that from ........ /......... /........... to ........
/......... /........... the vehicle insured is laid up in garage and not in use
and during this period all liability of the insurer under this policy
in respect of the vehicle insured is suspended SAVE ONLY IN
RESPECT OF LOSS OR DAMAGE TO THE SAID VEHICLE
CAUSED BY FIRE EXPLOSION SELF-IGNITION OR LIGHTNING
OR BURGLARY, HOUSEBREAKING, THEFT OR RIOT STRIKE
MALICIOUS DAMAGE TERRORISM OR STORM TEMPEST
FLOOD INUNDATION OR EARTHQUAKE PERILS, in
consideration whereof
I.#  The insurer will deduct from the next renewal premium the
   sum of `_____* and the No Claim Bonus (if any) shall be
    calculated on the next renewal premium after deduction of
    such sum.
II.  # The period of insurance by this policy is extended to ........
         /......... /...........in view of the payment of an additional premium
     of `____**
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
NB. 1.  # To delete (a) or (b) as per option exercised by the
         insured.
NB. 2.  *The proportionate full policy premium for the period of
         lay up less the proportionate premium for the Fire
        and/or Theft risks for the lay up periods  is to be
         inserted.
NB. 3 ** The proportionate premium required for Fire and/or
         Theft cover for the vehicle for the laid up period is to be
         inserted.
NB. 4.  In case of Liability Only Policies the words in CAPITALS
        should be deleted.
NB. 5.  In case of policies covering Liability Only and
1.   Fire risks, the words ‘BURGLARY HOUSEBREAKING OR
    THEFT’are to be deleted;
2.   Theft risks, the words ‘FIRE EXPLOSION SELF IGNITION OR
    LIGHTNING’ are to be deleted.
3.   Fire and Theft risks no part of the words in capitals are to be
     deleted.
B.   IMT. 11. B. VEHICLES LAID UP ( Lay up period not declared )
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is
hereby understood and agreed that from  ........  /.........  /........... to
........ /......... /........... the vehicle insured is laid up in garage and not
in use and during this period all liability of the insurer under this
policy in respect of the vehicle insured is suspended SAVE ONLY
IN RESPECT OF LOSS OR DAMAGE TO THE SAID VEHICLE
CAUSED BY FIRE EXPLOSION SELFIGNITION OR L IGHTNING
OR BURGLARY, HOUSEBREAKING, THEFT OR RIOT STRIKE
MALICIOUS DAMAGE TERRORISM OR STORM TEMPEST
FLOOD INUNDATION OR EARTHQUAKE
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this Policy. NB.1. In case of Liability Only Policies the
words in CAPITALS should be deleted.
NB. 2.   In case of policies covering Liability Only and
1.   Fire risks, the words ‘BURGLARY HOUSEBREAKING OR
    THEFT’ are to be deleted;
2.   Theft risks, the words 'FIRE EXPLOSION SELF IGNITION OR
    LIGHTNING’ are to be deleted.
3.   Fire and Theft risks no part of the words in capitals are to be
     deleted.
C.  IMT. 11. C. TERMINATION OF THE UNDECLARED PERIOD
   OF VEHICLE LAID UP
It is hereby understood and agreed that the insurance by this
Policy in respect of vehicle no. ..... insured hereunder is reinstated
in full from  ........  /.........  /........ and the Endorsement IMT 11(B)
attaching to this policy shall be deemed to be cancelled. It is
further agreed that in consideration of the period during which
the vehicle no. has been out of use
I.   # The insurer will deduct from the next renewal premium
the sum of `___________* and the No Claim Bonus (if any) shall
be calculated on the next renewal premium after deduction of
such sum.
II.  # The period of insurance by this policy is extended to ..../..../....
in view of the payment of an additional premium of `..........**
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
NB. 1.  # To delete (a) or (b) as per option exercised by the
          insured.
NB. 2.   * The proportionate full policy premium for the period
          of lay up less the proportionate premium for the Fire a
       nd /or Theft risks for the lay up periods is to be inserted.
NB.3    ** The proportionate premium required for Fire and/or
         Theft cover for the vehicle for the laid-up period is to be
          inserted.
12. IMT. 12. DISCOUNT FOR SPECIALLY DESIGNED/
MODIFIED VEHICLES FOR THE BLIND, HANDICAPPED AND
MENTALLY CHALLENGED PERSONS.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
policy  it is hereby understood and agreed that the vehicle
insured being specially designed  / modiﬁed for use of blind,
handicapped and mentally challenged persons and suitable
endorsement to this effect having been incorporated in the
Registration Book by the Registering Authority, a discount of
50% on the Own Damage premium for the vehicle insured is
hereby allowed to the insured.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of the policy.
13.  IMT. 13. USE OF VEHICLE WITHIN INSURED’S OWN
PREMISES (Applicable to all classes except as otherwise
provided in the tariff)
It is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer shall not be
liable in respect of the vehicle insured while the vehicle is being
used elsewhere than in the insured's premises except where the
vehicle is speciﬁcally required for a mission to ﬁght a ﬁre.
For the purposes of this endorsement 'Use conﬁned to own
premises' shall mean use only on insured's premises to which
public have no general right of access.
14.     IMT. 14. USE OF VEHICLE CONFINED TO SITES
(Applicable to Goods Carrying Vehicles)
It is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer shall not be
liable in respect of the vehicle insured while it is being used
elsewhere than on site to which the public have no general right
of access and the vehicle is not required to be registered under
the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
15.  IMT. 15. PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER TO THE INSURED
OR ANY NAMED PERSON OTHER THAN PAID DRIVER OR
CLEANER (Applicable to private cars including three wheelers
rated as private cars and motorized two wheelers with or
without side car [not for hire or reward)

In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is
hereby agreed and understood that the Company undertakes to
pay compensation on the scale provided below for bodily injury
as hereinafter deﬁned sustained by the insured person in direct
connection with the vehicle insured or whilst mounting and
dismounting from or traveling in vehicle insured and caused by
violent accidental external and visible means which
independently of any other cause shall within six calendar
months of the occurrence of such injury result in:-

 Nature of injury                          Scale of
                              CompensaƟon
 (I)  Death                         100%
 (ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two       100%
    eyes or one limb and sight of one eye
  (iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye     50%
 (iv) Permanent total disablement from     100%
     injuries other than named above

Provided always that

I.    Compensation shall be payable under only one of the
     items (i) to (iv) above in respect of any such person arising
     out of any one occurrence and total liability of the insurer
      shall not in the aggregate exceed the sum of `.......* during
     any one period of insurance in respect of any such person.

II.   No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or
      injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising or
      resulting from or traceable to (a) intentional self injury
      suicide or attempted suicide physical defect or inﬁrmity or
      (b) an accident happening whilst such person is under the
     inﬂuence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.

III.   Such compensation shall be payable only with the
     approval of the insured named in the policy and directly to
     the injured person or his/her legal representative(s) whose
      receipt shall be a full discharge in respect of the injury of
     such person.

Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.

* The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per passenger is to be inserted.

16.  IMT. 16. PERSONAL ACCIDENT TO UNNAMED
PASSENGERS OTHER THAN INSURED AND THE PAID
DRIVER AND CLEANER (For vehicles rated as Private cars
and Motorised two wheelers (not for hire or reward) with or
without side car)

In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is
hereby understood and agreed that the insurer undertakes to
pay compensation on the scale provided below for bodily
injuries hereinafter deﬁned sustained by any passenger other
than the insured and/or the paid driver attendant or cleaner
and/or a person in the employ of the insured coming within the
scope of the Workmen’ Compensation Act, 1923 and
subsequent amendments of the said Act and engaged in and
upon the service of the insured at the time such injury is
sustained whilst mounting into, dismounting from or traveling in
the insured motor car and caused by violent, accidental,
external and visible means which independently of any other
cause shall within three calendar months of the occurrence of
such injury result in :

    Nature of injury                          Scale of
                                 CompensaƟon
        (I)  Death                         100%
        (ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two       100%
       eyes or one limb and sight of one eye
        (iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye     50%
      (iv) Permanent total disablement from     100%
         injuries other than named above

Provided always that:-
I.   Compensation shall be payable under only one of the items
        (i) to (iv) above in respect of any such person arising out of
    any one occurrence and total liability of the insurer shall not
     in the aggregate exceed the sum of `____* during any one
     period of insurance in respect of any such person.
II.  No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or
     injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising or
     resulting from or traceable to (a) intentional self injury
     suicide or attempted suicide physical defect or inﬁrmity or
     (b) an accident happening whilst such person is under the
    inﬂuence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
III.  Such compensation shall be payable only with the
    approval of the insured named in the policy and directly to
     the injured person or his/her legal representative(s) whose
     receipt shall be a full discharge in respect of the injury of
    such person.
IV.  Not more than................... ** persons/passengers are in the
     vehicle insured at the time of occurrence of such injury.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
* The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per passenger is to be inserted.
** The registered sitting capacity of the vehicle insured is to be
inserted.

17.  IMT. 17. PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVER TO PAID
DRIVERS, CLEANERS AND CONDUCTORS: (Applicable to all
classes of vehicles)

In consideration of the payment of an additional premium, it is
hereby understood and agreed that the insurer undertakes to
pay compensation on the scale provided below for bodily injury
as hereinafter deﬁned sustained by the paid driver/
cleaner/conductor in the employ of the insured in direct
connection with the vehicle insured whilst mounting into
dismounting from or traveling in the insured vehicle and caused
by violent accidental external and visible means which
independently of any other cause shall within six calendar
months of the occurrence of such injury result in :
 Nature of injury                          Scale of
                              CompensaƟon
 (I)  Death                         100%
 (ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two       100%
    eyes or one limb and sight of one eye
  (iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye     50%
 (iv) Permanent total disablement from     100%
     injuries other than named above

Provided always that
I.   Compensation shall be payable under only one of the items
       (I) to (iv) above in respect of any such person arising out of
    any one occurrence and total liability of the insurer shall not
     in the aggregate exceed the sum of `____* during any one
    period of insurance in respect of any such person.
II.  No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or
     injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising or
     resulting from or traceable to
     (a) intentional self injury suicide or attempted suicide
        physical defect or inﬁrmity or (b) an accident
       happening whilst such person is under the inﬂuence of
         intoxicating liquor or drugs.
III.  Such compensation shall be payable only with the
    approval of the insured named in the policy and directly to
    the injured person or his/ her legal representative(s) whose
     receipt shall be a full discharge in respect of the injury of
    such person.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
* The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per person is to be inserted.
18. IMT. 18. PERSONAL ACCIDENT TO UNNAMED HIRER
AND UNNAMED PILLION PASSENGERS (Applicable to
Motorised Two wheelers with or without side Car)
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is
hereby understood and agreed that the insurer undertakes to
pay compensation to any unnamed hirer/driver/any unnamed
pillion/sidecar passenger* on the scale provided below for
bodily injury caused by violent, accidental, external and visible
means whilst mounting into/onto and/or dismounting from or
traveling in/on the vehicle insured which independently of any
other cause shall within three calendar months of the
occurrence of such injury results in :

 Nature of injury                          Scale of
                              CompensaƟon
 (I)  Death                         100%
 (ii) Loss of two limbs or sight of two       100%
    eyes or one limb and sight of one eye
  (iii) Loss of one limb or sight of one eye     50%
 (iv) Permanent total disablement from     100%
     injuries other than named above
Provided always that:
I.   Compensation shall be payable under only one of the items
        (i) to (iv) above in respect of any such person arising out of
    any one occurrence and total liability of the insurer shall not
     in the aggregate exceed the sum of `______** during any
    one period of insurance in respect of any such person.
II.  No compensation shall be payable in respect of death or
     injury directly or indirectly wholly or in part arising or
     resulting from or traceable to (a) intentional self injury
     suicide or attempted suicide physical defect or inﬁrmity or
     (b) an accident happening whilst such person is under the
    inﬂuence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
III.  Such compensation shall be payable only with the
    approval of the insured named in the policy and directly to
     the injured person or his/her legal representative(s) whose
     receipt shall be a full discharge in respect of the injury of
    such person.
IV.  Not more than ...................... persons/passengers are in the
     vehicle insured at the time of occurrence of such injury.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
* Delete if P.A. cover for unnamed pillion/side car passenger is
not taken.
** The Capital Sum Insured (CSI) per passenger is to be inserted.
19.  IMT. 19. COVER FOR VEHICLES IMPORTED WITHOUT
CUSTOMS DUTY
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
policy it is hereby understood and agreed that in the event of
loss or damage to the vehicle insured and/or its accessories
necessitating the supply of a part not obtainable from stocks
held in the country in which the vehicle insured is held for repair
or in the event of the insurer exercising the option under
...................... * to pay in cash the amount of the loss or damage the
liability of the insurer in respect of any such part shall be limited
to :-
I.     a.  The price quoted in the latest catalogue or the price list
         issued by the Manufacturer or his Agent for the
         country in which the vehicle insured is held for repair
          less depreciation applicable; OR
      b.   If no such catalogue or price list exists the price list
         obtaining at the Manufacturer’s Works plus the
        reasonable cost of transport otherwise than by air to
         the country in which the vehicle insured is held for
          repair and the amount of the relative import duty less
         depreciation applicable under the Policy; and
II.   The reasonable cost of ﬁtting such parts.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.
* Insert 'condition 3' in the case of the Private Car and Motorsied
Two Wheeler Policies and 'condition 4’ in the case of
Commercial Vehicles Policy.
20.  IMT. 20. REDUCTION IN THE LIMIT OF LIABILITY FOR
PROPERTY DAMAGE
It  is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in the policy the insurers
liability is limited to ` 6000/- (Rupees six thousand only) for
damage to property other than the property belonging to the
insured or held in trust or in custody or control of the insured. In
consideration of this reduction in the limit of liability a reduction
in premium of `.......* is hereby made to the insured.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of the policy.
*To insert ` 50 for Two wheelers, ` 100 for private cars ` 150 for
Commercial Vehicles. three wheelers and taxis or ` 200 for
Commercial Vehicles (excluding three wheelers and taxis).
21. IMT. 21. SPECIAL EXCLUSIONS AND COMPULSORY
DEDUCTIBLE (Applicable to  all Commercial Vehicles
excluding taxis and motorized two wheelers carrying
passengers for hire or reward.)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is
hereby understood and agreed that
I.   Special Exclusions
    Except in the case of Total Loss of the vehicle insured, the
     insurer shall not be liable under Section I of the policy for
     loss of or damage to lamps tyres tubes mudguards bonnet
     side parts bumpers and paint work.
II.  Compulsory Deductible
     In addition to any amount which the insured may be
     required to bear under para (a) above the insured shall also
    bear under section I of the policy in respect of each and
    every event (including event giving rise to total loss/Cash
    Loss/constructive total loss) the ﬁrst  `.......* of any
    expenditure(or any less expenditure which may be
     incurred) for which provision is made under this policy
    and/or of any expenditure by the insurer in the exercise of
      its discretion under Condition No.4 of this policy.  If the
    expenditure incurred by the insurer shall include any
    amount for which the insured is responsible hereunder
    such amount shall be repaid by the insured to the insurer
     forthwith.
    For the purpose of this Endorsement the expression event
     shall mean an event or series of events arising out of one
    cause in connection with the vehicle insured in respect of
    which indemnity is provided under this policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.
* to insert amount as appropriate to the class of vehicle insured
as per GR.40 of the tariff.
22. IMT. 22. COMPULSORY DEDUCTIBLE (Applicable to
Private Cars, three wheelers rated as private cars, all motorized
two wheelers, taxis, private car type vehicle plying for
public/private hire, private type taxi let out on private hire)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
policy it is hereby understood and agreed that the insured shall
bear under Section 1 of the policy in respect of each and every
event (including event giving rise to a total loss/Cash
Loss/constructive total loss) the ﬁrst `________* (or any less
expenditure which may be incurred) of any expenditure for
which provision has been made under this policy and/or of any
expenditure by the insurer in the exercise of his discretion under
Condition no__________** of this policy.
If the expenditure incurred by the insurer shall include any
amount for which the insured is responsible hereunder such
amount shall be repaid by the insured to the insurer forthwith.
For the purpose of this Endorsement the expression .event. shall
mean an event or series of events arising out of one cause in
connection with the vehicle insured in respect of which
indemnity is provided under this policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.
*I.  To insert amount as appropriate to the class of vehicle
    insured as per GR.40 of the tariff.
II.   In respect of a vehicle rated under the Tariff for Private Car
    and in respect of a motorised two wheeler not carrying
    passengers for hire or reward, if any deductible in addition
     to the compulsory deductible provided in this endorsement
      is voluntarily borne by the insured, the sum representing
    the aggregate of the compulsory and the voluntary
    deductibles is to be inserted.
** To insert Condition no 3 in respect of a vehicle rated under
Tariff for Private Car/Two wheelers or Condition no 4 in respect
of a vehicle rated under the Tariff for Commercial Vehicles.
23. IMT. 22. A. VOLUNTARY DEDUCTIBLE (For private
cars/motorized two wheelers other than for hire or reward)
It is by declared and agreed that the insured having opted a
voluntary deductible of `____* a reduction in premium of `
** under Section 1 of the policy is hereby allowed.
In consideration of the above,  it is hereby understood and
agreed that the insured shall bear under Section 1 Of the policy
in respect of each and every event (including event giving rise to
a total loss/Cash Loss/constructive total Loss) the ﬁrst
`_________*** (or any less expenditure which may be incurred)
ﬁrst `..................................*** (or any less expenditure which may
be incurred) of any expenditure for which provision has been
made under this policy and/or of any expenditure by the insurer
in the exercise of his discretion under Condition no ......................#
of this policy.
If the expenditure incurred by the insurer shall include any
amount for which the insured is responsible hereunder such
amount shall be repaid by the insured to the insurer forthwith.
For the purpose of this Endorsement the expression event shall
mean an event or series of events arising out of one cause in
connection with the vehicle insured in respect of which
indemnity is provided under this policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.
* To insert voluntary deductible amount opted by the insured
under tariff for Private car/tariff for motorised two wheeler.
** To insert appropriate amount relating to the voluntary
deductible opted as per the provision of tariff for Private
car/tariff for motorised two wheelers.
*** To insert aggregate amount of voluntary deductible opted
and the compulsory deductible applicable to the vehicle insured
as in G.R. 40.
# To insert policy condition No. 3 of the tariff for private car/tariff
for motorised two wheelers.
24.   IMT. 23. COVER FOR LAMPS TYRES/ TUBES
M U D G UA R D S B O N N ET/ S I D E PA RTS B U M P E RS
HEADLIGHTS AND PAINTWORK OF DAMAGED PORTION
ONLY. (For all Commercial Vehicles)
In consideration of payment of an additional premium of `.......*,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
policy  it  is hereby understood and agreed that subject to
conditions (a) (b) and (c) hereunder loss of or damage (excluding
theft under any circumstances) to lamps tyres/tubes
mudguards bonnet/side parts bumpers headlights and
paintwork of damaged portion only is covered provided the
vehicle is also damaged at the same time. Subject to:
I.   Depreciation as per schedule provided in Section 1 of the
     policy. It is further understood and agreed that in respect of
    paint work for the damaged portion only (as referred to
    above) shall also be as per schedule provided in Section 1 of
    the policy.
II.   In addition to any amount which the insured may be
    required to bear under para (a) above, the insured shall also
    bear 50% of the assessed loss in respect of each and every
    claim under this Endorsement.
III.   It is also understood that no deductible other than those
    mentioned in (a) and (b) above shall be applicable in
    respect of a claim which become payable under this
    Endorsement.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.
* To insert the sum arrived at as per the provisions of G.R.40.
NB.3. of the Tariff.
25. IMT. 24. ELECTRICAL  / ELECTRONIC FITTINGS (Items
ﬁtted in the vehicle but not included in the manufacturer’
listed selling price of the vehicle. Package Policy only)
In consideration of the payment of additional premium of
`......., notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
policy it is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer will
indemnify the insured against loss of or damage to such
electrical and/ or electronic ﬁtting(s) as speciﬁed in the schedule
whilst it/these is/are ﬁtted in or on the vehicle insured where
such loss or damage  is occasioned by any of the perils
mentioned in Section.1 of the policy.
The insurer shall, however, not be liable for loss of or damage to
such ﬁtting(s) caused by/as a result of mechanical or electrical
breakdown.
Provided always that the liability of the insurer hereunder shall
not exceed the Insured’s Declared Value (IDV) of the item.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.
26. IMT. 25. CNG/LPG KIT IN BI-FUEL SYSTEM (Own Damage
cover for the kit)
In consideration of the payment of premium of  `.......*
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
policy it is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer will
indemnify the insured in terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of Section1 of the policy against loss and/or damage
to the CNG/LPG kit ﬁtted in the vehicle insured arising from an
accidental loss or damage to the vehicle insured, subject to the
limit of the Insured’s Declared Value of the CNG/LPG kit
speciﬁed in the Schedule of the policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.
* To insert sum arrived at in terms of G.R.42.
27. IMT. 26. FIRE AND/OR THEFT RISKS ONLY (Not
applicable for Miscellaneous and Special Types of vehicles
ratable under Class-D and Motor Trade Policies under
Classes-E, F and G of the Commercial Vehicles Tariff)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
policy it is hereby understood and agreed that Section II of the
Policy is deemed to be cancelled and under Section I thereof the
insurer shall only be liable to indemnify the insured against loss
or damage by ﬁre explosion self ignition lightning and/or
burglary housebreaking theft and riot strike malicious damage
terrorism storm tempest ﬂood inundation and earthquake perils
whilst the vehicle is laid up in garage and not in use.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.
NB. a. In case of Fire Risk only, the words ‘urglary housebreaking
theft’are to be deleted.
NB. b. In case of Theft Risk only, the words ‘ire explosion self
ignition lightning riot strike malicious damage terrorism storm
tempest ﬂood inundation and earthquake perils’are to be
deleted.
28.  IMT. 27. LIABILITY AND FIRE AND/OR THEFT (Not
applicable for Miscellaneous and Special Types of vehicles
rateable under Class of the Tariff for Commercial Vehicles)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
policy it is hereby understood and agreed that Section I of the
Policy the insurer shall not be liable there under except in
respect of loss or damage by ﬁre explosion self ignition lightning
and/or burglary housebreaking theft and riot strike malicious
damage terrorism storm tempest ﬂood inundation and
earthquake perils.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of the Policy.
NB. a. In case of Liability and Fire Risks only, the words ‘burglary
housebreaking theft’ are to be deleted.
NB. b. In case of Liability and Theft Risks only, the words ‘ire
explosion self ignition lightning riot strike malicious damage
terrorism storm tempest ﬂood inundation and earthquake
perils’ are to be deleted.
29.   IMT. 28. LEGAL LIABILITY TO PAID DRIVER AND/OR
CO N D U CTO R A N D/O R C L EA N E R E M P LOY E D   I N
CONNECTION WITH THE OPERATION OF INSURED VEHICLE
(For all Classes of vehicles)
In consideration of an additional premium of ` 50/-
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
policy it is hereby understood and agreed that the insurer shall
indemnify the insured against the Insured’s legal liability under
the Workmen’ Compensation Act, 1923, the Fatal Accidents
Act, 1855 or at Common Law and subsequent amendments of
these Acts prior to the date of this Endorsement in respect of
personal injury to any paid driver and/or conductor and/or
cleaner whilst engaged in the service of the insured in such
occupation in connection with the vehicle insured herein and
will in addition be responsible for  all costs and expenses
incurred with its written consent.
Provided always that
I.   This Endorsement does not indemnify the insured in
     respect of any liability in cases where the insured holds or
    subsequently effects with any insurer or group of insurers a
     Policy of Insurance in respect of liability as herein deﬁned
     for Insured’s general employees;
II.  The insured shall take reasonable precautions to prevent
     accidents and shall comply with all statutory obligations;
*III. the insured shall keep record of the name of each paid
     driver conductor cleaner or persons employed in loading
     and/or unloading and the amount of wages and salaries
    and other earnings paid to such employees and shall at all
    times allow the insurer to inspect such records on demand.
IV.  in the event of the Policy being cancelled at the request of
     the insured no refund of the premium paid in respect of this
    Endorsement will be allowed.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of the Policy except so far as necessary to meet the
requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
*In case of Private cars/motorised two wheelers (not used for
hire or reward) delete this para.

30. IMT. 29. LEGAL LIABILITY TO EMPLOYEES OF THE
INSURED OTHER THAN PAID DRIVER AND/OR CONDUCTOR
AND/ OR CLEANER WHO MAY  BE  TRAVELLING OR
DRIVING IN THE EMPLOYER’ CAR (Private Cars only/
Motorised two wheelers (not for hire or reward))

In consideration of the payment of an additional premium @
` 25/- per employee insured notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in the policy it is hereby understood and
agreed that the insurer will indemnify the insured against the
Insured’s liability at Common Law and Statutory Liability under
the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 for compensation (including legal
costs of any claimant) for death of or bodily injury to any
employee (other than paid drivers) of the within named insured
being carried in or upon or entering in or getting on to or
alighting from or driving the vehicle insured.

Provided that in the event of an accident whilst the vehicle
insured is carrying more than  ...................* employees of the
insured (including the driver) the insured shall repay to the
insurer a rateable proportion of the total amount payable by the
insurer by the reason of this endorsement in respect of accident
in connection with such vehicle insured.

Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.

NB. * To insert the number of employees for which the premium
has been paid.

31. IMT. 30. TRAILERS. (Applicable to Private Cars Only)

In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is
hereby understood and agreed that the indemnity granted by
this policy shall extend to apply to the Trailer (Registration No.
.........................................................).

Provided always that

*I.  The IDV of such Trailer shall be deemed not to exceed
         ...................* *

II.  The term ‘railer’ shall not include its contents or anything
    contained thereon.

III.  Such indemnity shall not apply in respect of death or bodily
     injury to any person being conveyed by the said Trailer
    otherwise than by reason of or in pursuance of a contract of
    employment.

Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.

* Delete in the case of Liability to the public Risks only policies.

** Insert value of trailer as declared at inception of insurance or
any renewal thereof.
32. IMT. 31. RELIABILITY TRIALS AND RALLIES [Private Cars
and Motorised Two Wheelers]

In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is
hereby understood and agreed that the indemnity granted by
this Policy is extended to apply whilst the vehicle insured is
engaged in______*. to be held at ....**... on or about the date of
......../........./...........under the auspices of__________.#

Provided that:-

I.  No indemnity shall be granted by this Endorsement to ........ #

II.   This Policy does not cover use for organised racing, pace
    making or speed testing.

III.  During the course of the  ...........* the Insurer shall not be
     liable in respect of death of or bodily injury to any person
    being carried in or upon or entering or getting on to or
    alighting from the vehicle insured at the time of the
    occurrence of the event out of which any claim arises.

# # It is further understood and agreed that while the vehicle
    insured is engaged in ...........* the insured shall bear the ﬁrst
        `....... @ (or any less amount for which the claim may be
    assessed) of each and every claim under Section I of this
     Policy.

Provided that if the insurer shall make any payment in exercise
of its discretion under Condition No. 3 of the policy in settlement
of any claim and such payment includes the amount for which
the insured is responsible by reason of this Endorsement the
insured shall repay to the insurer forthwith the amount for
which the insured is so responsible.

For the purpose of this Endorsement the expression claim shall
mean a claim or series of claims arising out of one event.

Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.

* To insert the name of the event @ To insert ` 5000/- for Private
cars or ` 2500/- for motorised two wheelers. For the duration of
the event the deductible under Section 1 of the policy for the
purpose of IMT 22 will be the amount stated in IMT 22 or the
amount stated herein, whichever is higher.

** To insert the venue of the event.

# To insert the name of the promoters of the event.

# # To delete this entire paragraph in case of Liability Only
policies.

33.  IMT. 32. ACCIDENTS TO SOLDIERS/SAILORS/AIRMEN
EMPOYED AS DRIVERS
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of
` 100/-* it is hereby understood and agreed that in the event of
any Soldier/Sailor/Airman employed by the insured to drive the
vehicle insured being injured or killed whilst so employed, this
policy will extend to relieve the insured of his liability to
indemnify Ministry of Defence under the respective Regulations.
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.
* This additional premium is ﬂat and irrespective of period of
insurance not exceeding 12 months. Any extension of the policy
period beyond 12 months will call for payment of further
additional premium under this endorsement.
34. IMT. 33. LOSS OF ACCESSORIES (Applicable to Motorised
Two Wheeler Policies only)
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium
of `.............................. it is hereby understood and agreed that as
from  ....../...../......... notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in Section  I but subject otherwise to the terms
exceptions conditions and limitations of this Policy the insurer
will indemnify the insured in respect of loss of or damage to
accessories the property of the insured, speciﬁcally declared by
the insured caused by burglary, housebreaking or theft.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this policy.
35. IMT. 34. USE OF COMMERCIAL TYPE VEHICLES FOR
BOTH COMMERCIAL AND PRIVATE PURPOSES (Applicable
to Commercial Vehicle Policies only)
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of `
and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein
it is hereby understood and agreed that
I   The insurer will indemnify the insured against his legal
      liability under Common Law and Statutory Liability under
    the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 in respect of death of or
     bodily injury to any person not being an employee of the
    insured nor carried for hire or reward, whilst being carried
     in or upon or entering or mounting or alighting from any
    motor vehicle described in the Schedule to this Policy.
ii.   This Policy shall be operative whilst any vehicle described
     in the Schedule hereto is being used by the insured or by
    any other person with the permission of the Insured for
     social, domestic, or pleasure purposes.
Whilst any such vehicle is being so used the insurer will in terms
and subject to the limitations of and for the purposes of Section
II of this policy treat as though he were the Insured person using
such vehicle provided that such person
I.    Is not entitled to indemnity under any other Policy.
II.   Shall as though he were the insured observe, fulﬁll and be
    subject to the terms, provisions, conditions and
    endorsements of this Policy in so far as they apply.
III.  Has not been refused any Motor Vehicle Insurance or
    continuance thereof by any insurer.
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.
NOTE: In case of Liability only Policies delete (1) above
36. IMT. 35. HIRED VEHICLES-DRIVEN BY HIRER*
(Applicable to four wheeled vehicles with carrying capacity
not exceeding 6 passengers and Motorised Two wheelers)
It  is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Policy unless the
vehicle insured is being driven by or is for the purpose of being
driven by the insured in the charge of the within named insured
or a driver in the insured’s employment, the policy shall only be
operative whilst the vehicle insured is let on hire by the insured
to any person (hereinafter called the Hirer) who:-
i    Shall have entered into a hire contract with the insured and
   who prior to such hiring shall have satisfactorily completed
    and signed a supplementary proposal form**.
ii.   Shall have satisﬁed the insured
     a.  That the vehicle insured will only be driven by a duly
         licensed driver whose license has not been endorsed;
     b.  That such driver has not been refused Motor Insurance
        nor had his/her insurance policy been cancelled nor
       had special conditions imposed nor had increased
       premium demanded from him/her by reason of claims
         experience.
It is also understood and agreed that whilst the vehicle insured
is let on hire to the Hirer the insurer shall not be liable.
I.    For any loss, damage or liability due to or arising from
      theft or conversion by the Hirer unless covered by payment
     of additional premium @ 1.50% on IDV. (Endt. IMT 43 is to
    be used.)
II.    To pay the ﬁrst `....... of each and every claim in respect of
     which indemnity would but for this endorsement have
    been provided by Section I of this Policy.
         If the expenditure incurred by the Insurer shall include the
    amount for which the Insured is responsible hereunder,
     such amount shall be repaid by the insured to the Insurer
     forthwith. For the purpose of this endorsement the
     expression .Claim. shall mean a claim or series of claims
      arising out of one cause in respect of the vehicle.
         If the vehicle  is used by the Hirer for carriage of
     passengers for hire or reward.
* For the purposes of this endorsement the insurer will in terms
of and subject to the provisions contained in item I of Section II of
this Policy, treat the Hirer as a person who is driving the Two
wheeler.
Further it is agreed that the insured shall forward to the insurer
the supplementary proposal referred to above, completed by
the Hirer immediately after receipt thereof which proposal as
well as that referred to in this policy shall be the basis of the
contract expressed in this endorsement so far as it relates to the
indemnity which is operative whilst the vehicle is let on hire to
such Hirer.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
NOTE :
For Liability only policies delete the whole of items (1) and (2)
and the paragraph in bold marked with *.
** Insurer to devise a suitable supplementary proposal form.
37. IMT. 36. INDEMNITY TO HIRER- PACKAGE POLICY-
NEGLIGENCE OF THE INSURED OR HIRER.
It  is hereby declared and agreed that the company will
indemnify any hirer of the vehicle insured against loss, damage
and liability as deﬁned in this Policy arising in connection with
the vehicle insured by reason of the negligence of the within
named insured or of any employee of such insured while the
vehicle insured is let on hire.
Provided that any such hirer shall as though he/she were the
insured observe fulﬁll and be subject to the terms, exceptions,
conditions and limitations of this policy in so far as they apply.
38. IMT. 37. LEGAL LIABILITY TO NON-FARE PAYING
PASSENGERS OTHER THAN STATUTORY LIABILITY EXCEPT
THE FATAL ACCIDENTS ACT, 1855 (Commercial Vehicles only)
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of
`....... and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
Section II-1 (b) and (c) it is hereby understood and agreed that
the Company will Indemnify the Insured against his legal
liability other than liability under the Statute (except the Fatal
Accidents Act 1855 ) in respect of death of or bodily injury to:-
i   Any employee of the within named insured who is not a
   workman within the meaning of the Workmens
    Compensation Act Prior to date of this endorsement and
    not being carried for hire or reward.
ii.  Any other person not being carried for hire or reward
    provided that the person is
     a.  Charterer or representative of the charterer of the truck
     b.  Any other person directly connected with the journey in
       one form or other being carried in or upon or entering or
       mounting or alighting from any Motor Vehicle
        described in the schedule of the policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitation of this policy.
39. IMT. 37. A. LEGAL LIABILITY TO NON FARE PAYING
PASSENGERS WHO ARE NOT EMPLOYEES OF THE INSURED
(Commercial Vehicles only)
In consideration of the paying of an additional premium of
`.............................. and notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in Section II-1 ( c ) it is hereby understood and agreed
that the company will indemnify the insured against his legal
liability other than liability under statute (except Fatal Accidents
Act 1855) in respect of death or bodily injury to any person not
being an employee of the insured and not carried for hire or
reward provided that the person is
a.   Charterer or representative of the charterer of the truck.
b.  Any other person directly connected with the journey in one
    form or the other being carried in or upon or entering or
    mounting or alighting from vehicle insured described in the
   SCHEDULE OF THIS POLICY.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
40. IMT. 38. LEGAL LIABILITY TO FARE PAY ING
PASSENGERS EXCLUDING LIABILITY FOR ACCIDENTS TO
EMPLOYEES OF THE INSURED ARISING OUT OF AND IN THE
COURSE OF THEIR EMPLOYMENT (Commercial and Motor
Trade Vehicles only)
I.   For use with Package Policies.
In consideration of an additional premium of  `.......
and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
Section II - 1 (c) but subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions,
conditions and limitations of this policy, the insurer will
indemnify the insured against liability at Law for compensation
(including Law costs of any claimant) for death of or bodily
injury to any person other than a person excluded under Section
II-1 (B) being carried in or upon or entering or mounting or
alighting from the Motor Vehicle.
Provided always that in the event of an accident occurring
whilst the Motor Vehicle is carrying more than the number of
persons mentioned in the Schedule hereto as being the licensed
carrying capacity of that vehicle in addition to the conductor if
any then the Insured shall repay to the Insurer rateable
proportion of the total amount which would be payable by the
Insurer by reason of this endorsement if not more than the said
number of persons were carried in the Motor Vehicle.
Provided further that in computing the number of persons for
the purpose of this endorsement any three children not
exceeding 15 years of age will be reckoned as two persons and
any child in arms not exceeding 3 years of age will be
disregarded. Provided also that the provisions of condition 3 of
the Policy are also applicable to a claim or series of claims under
this endorsement.
Provided further that in the event of Policy being cancelled at the
request of the insured no refund of premium paid in respect of
this endorsement will be allowed.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
II.   For use with Liability only Policy.
In consideration of an additional premium of  `.......
and subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy, the insurer will indemnify the insured
against liability at Law for compensation (including Law Costs
of any claimant) for death of or bodily injury to any person other
than a person excluded under general exception being carried in
or upon or entering or mounting or alighting from the Motor
Vehicle.
Provided always that in the event of an accident occurring
whilst the Motor Vehicle is carrying more than the number of
persons mentioned in the Schedule hereto as being the licensed
carrying capacity of that vehicle in addition to the conductor if
any then the insured shall repay to the Insurer rateable
proportion of the total amount which would be payable by the
Insurer by reason of this endorsement if not more than the said
number of persons were carried in the Motor Vehicle.
Provided further that in computing the number of persons for
the purpose of this endorsement any 3 children not exceeding
15 years of age will be reckoned as two persons and any
children in arms not exceeding 3 years of age will be
disregarded.
Provided further that in the event of Policy being cancelled at the
request of the insured no refund of premium paid in respect of
this endorsement will be allowed.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
41.   IMT. 39. LEGAL LIABILITY TO PERSONS EMPLOYED IN
CO N N E CT I O N W I T H T H E O P E RAT I O N A N D/O R
MAINTAINING AND/OR LOADING AND/OR UNLOADING OF
MOTOR VEHICLES (for Goods Vehicle)
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of
......................*  it  is hereby understood and agreed that
notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary the
insurer shall indemnify the insured against his legal liability
under the Workmen’ Compensation Act, 1923 and subsequent
amendments of that Act prior to the date of this Endorsement,
the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 or at Common Law in respect of
personal injury to any paid driver (or cleaner or conductor or
person employed in loading/or unloading but in any case not
exceeding seven in number including driver and cleaner) whilst
engaged in the service of the insured in such occupation in
connection with the and not exceeding seven in number and
will in addition be responsible for  all costs and expenses
incurred with its written consent.
Provided always that :
I.   This Endorsement does not indemnify the insured in respect
    of any liability in cases where the insured holds or
    subsequently effects with any insurer or Group of
    Underwriters a Policy of Insurance in respect of liability as
    herein deﬁned for his general employees.
II.  The insured shall take reasonable precautions to prevent
    accidents and shall comply with all statutory obligations.
III.  The insured shall keep a record of the name of each driver
    cleaner conductor or person employed in loading and/or
    unloading and the amount of wages salary and other
    earnings paid to such employees and shall at times allow
    the insurer to inspect such record.
IV.  In the event of the Policy being cancelled at the request of
    the insured no refund of the premium paid in respect of this
    Endorsement will be allowed.
The premium to be calculated at the rate of ` 25/- per driver
and/or cleaner or conductor and/or person employed in loading
and/or unloading but not exceeding the number permitted by
the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 including driver and cleaner.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this Policy except so far as necessary to meet the
requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
42. IMT. 39. A. LEGAL LIABILITY UNDER THE WORKMEN’
COMPENSATION ACT, 1923 IN RESPECT OF THE CARRIAGE
OF MORE THAN SIX EMPLOYEES (Excluding the Driver) in
goods carrying vehicles.
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is
hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything
to the contrary contained herein the company shall indemnify
the insured against his legal  liability under the Workmen’
Compensation Act, 1923 and subsequent amendments to that
Act prior to the date of this endorsement in respect of death of or
bodily injury to any person (other than the paid driver)
exceeding six in number whilst being carried in the Motor vehicle
and will in addition be responsible for all costs and expenses
incurred with its written consent.
Provided always that :
I.  The Company shall not be liable by virtue of this
    Endorsement to indemnify the insured in respect of any
      liability in cases where the insured holds or subsequently
    effects with any insurance company or group of
    Underwriters a Policy of Insurance in respect of liability as
    herein deﬁned for his general employees and where the
    Insured has not obtained special permission from the
     registration authorities for carriage of more than six such
    employees.
II.  The insured shall take reasonable precautions to prevent
    accidents and shall comply with all statutory obligations.
III.  The insured shall keep a record of the name of each person
    employed in connection with the loading and unloading of
    the vehicles and the amount of wages salary and other
    earnings paid to such employees and shall at all times
    allow the Insurer to inspect such record.
IV.  In the event of the Policy being cancelled at the request of
    the insured no refund of the premium paid in respect of this
    Endorsement will be allowed.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
43. IMT. 40. LEGAL LIABILITY TO PAID DRIVER AND/OR
CO N D U CTO R A N D/O R C L EA N E R E M P LOY E D   I N
CONNECTION WITH THE OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
(For buses, taxis and motorized three/four wheelers under
commercial vehicles tariff)
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is
hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding anything
contained herein to the contrary the insurer shall indemnify
insured against his legal liability under the Workmen’
Compensation Act, 1923 and subsequent amendments of that
Act prior to the date of this endorsement, the Fatal Accidents
Act, 1855 or at Common Law in respect of personal injury to any
paid driver and/or conductor and/or cleaner whilst engaged in
the service of the insured in such occupation in connection with
the vehicle insured and will in addition be responsible for all
costs and expenses incurred with its written consent.
The premium to be calculated and paid while taking insurance
of the vehicle concurred at the rate of ` 50/- per driver and/or
conductor and/or cleaner.
Provided always that:-
I.   This Endorsement does not indemnify the insured in respect
     of any liability in cases where the insured holds or
    subsequently effects with any insurer or Group of
    Underwriters a Policy of Insurance in respect of liability as
    herein deﬁned for his general employees.
II.  The insured shall take reasonable precautions to prevent
    accidents and shall comply with all statutory obligations.
III.  The insured shall keep a record of the name of each driver
    cleaner conductor or person employed in loading and/or
    unloading and the amount of wages salary and other
    earnings paid to such employees and shall at all times
    allow the insurer to inspect such record.
IV.  In the event of the Policy being cancelled at the request of
    the insured no refund of the premium paid in respect of this
    Endorsement will be allowed. Subject otherwise to the
    terms exceptions conditions and limitations of this Policy
    except so far as necessary to meet the requirements of the
    Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
44. IMT. 41. MOTOR TRADE POLICY - CLASS ‘’ROAD RISK
ONLY
It is hereby declared and agreed that notwithstanding anything
contained herein to the contrary that in respect of any new
vehicle and/or chassis bearing a Trade Certiﬁcate Number
speciﬁed in the Schedule of the policy, the Geographical Area for
the purpose of this Policy shall be as deﬁned hereunder and not
as stated in the Schedule hereto.
Geographical Area
Under Section II-(I) .. INDIA
Under all other Sections- Within a radius of  ........* kilometers
from the insured’s address as stated in the Schedule hereto.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.
* to insert 80 or 120 as opted for by insured and premium paid
accordingly.
45. IMT. 42. PRIVATE CARRIERS (Goods Carrying
Commercial Vehicles Only)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is
hereby understood and agreed that the insurer shall not be
liable for any loss or damage to the vehicle insured and/or for
any third party liability in respect thereof  if at the time of
accident the vehicle insured under this policy is carrying goods
not belonging to the insured Subject otherwise to the terms
conditions limitations and exceptions of this policy.
Article II NOTE : For Liability only Policies delete the words “or
any loss or damage to the vehicle insured and/or” for any loss
46. IMT. 43. THEFT AND CONVERSION RISK
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is
hereby understood and agreed in this Policy in consideration of
the payment of additional premium @ 1.50% of IDV, Clause ii (b)
(1) of Endorsement IMT-35 is hereby deemed to be deleted.
It is further understood and agreed that the indemnity in respect
of Theft and/or Conversion by the hirer is applicable only in case
of Theft and/or Conversion of the entire vehicle.
It is further understood and agreed that No Claim Bonus will not
be applicable to the additional premium charged hereunder.
47. IMT. 44. INDEMNITY TO HIRER - PACKAGE POLICY -
NEGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR HIRER
It is hereby declared and agreed that in consideration of
payment of an additional premium of  `........ the Insurer will
indemnify any hirer of the Vehicle insured against loss, damage
and liability as deﬁned in this Policy arising in connection with
the Vehicle insured while let on hire.
Provided that any such hirer shall as though he/she were the
insured observe fulﬁll and be subject to the terms, exceptions,
conditions and limitations of this policy in so far as they apply.
48.  IMT. 45. INDEMNITY TO HIRER - LIABILITY ONLY POLICY
‘EGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR HIRER’ NEGLIGENCE OF
THE HIRER
It is hereby declared and agreed that in consideration of
payment of an additional premium of  `....... the Insurer will
indemnify any hirer of the Motor Vehicle against liability as
deﬁned in this Policy arising in connection with the Motor
Vehicle while let on hire.
Provided that any such hirer shall as though he were the Insured
observe fulﬁll and be subject to the terms, exceptions,
conditions and limitations of this Policy in so far as they apply.
49.  IMT. 46. LEGAL LIABILITY TO PASSENGERS EXCLUDING
LIABILITY FOR ACCIDENTS TO EMPLOYEES OF THE
INSURED ARISING OUT OF AND  IN COURSE OF THEIR
EMPLOYMENT  (Applicable  to Ambulance/Hearses under
class D of Commercial vehicles and to Motor Trade vehicles)
In consideration of an additional premium of `  ...............
and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
Section II-I(C) but subject otherwise to the terms exceptions
conditions and limitations of this policy the insurer will
indemnify the insured against liability at Law for compensation
(including legal costs of any claimant) for death of or bodily
injury to any person other than a person excluded under Section
II -  I (B) being carried in or upon or entering or mounting or
alighting from the vehicle insured.
Provided always that in the event of an accident occurring
whilst the vehicle insured is carrying more than the number of
persons mentioned in the Schedule hereto as being the licensed
carrying capacity of that vehicle in addition to the conductor if
any then the insured shall repay to the insurer ratables
proportion of the total amount which would be payable by the
insurer by reason of this endorsement if not more than the said
number of persons were carried in the vehicle insured.
Provided further that in computing the number of persons for the
purpose of this endorsement any three children not exceeding 15
years of age will be reckoned as two persons and any child in
arms not exceeding 3 years of age will be disregarded.
Provided also that the provisions of condition 3 of the policy are
also applicable to a claim or series of claims under this
endorsement.
Provided further that in the event of policy being cancelled at the
request of the insured no refund of premium paid in respect of
this endorsement will be allowed.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
(For use with ‘Liability Only’ Policy)
In consideration of an additional premium of  `........................
and subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this Policy the insurer will indemnify the insured
against liability at law for compensation (including legal costs of
any claimant) for death of or bodily injury to any person other than
a person excluded under general exception being carried in or
upon or entering or mounting or alighting from the vehicle insured.
Provided always that in the event of an accident occurring
whilst the vehicle insured is carrying more than the number of
persons mentioned in the Schedule hereto as being the licensed
carrying capacity of that vehicle in addition to the conductor if
any then the insured shall repay to the insurer ratables
proportion of the total amount which would be payable by the
insurer by reason of this endorsement if not more than the said
number of persons were carried in the vehicle insured.
Provided further that in computing the number of persons for the
purpose of this endorsement any 3 children not exceeding 15
years of age will be reckoned as two persons and any children in
arms not exceeding 3 years of age will be disregarded.
Provided further that in the event of Policy being cancelled at
the request of the insured no refund of premium paid in respect
of this endorsement will be allowed.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this policy.
50. IMT. 47. MOBILE CRANES/DRILLING RIGS/MOBILE
PLANTS/ EXCAVATORS/ NAVVIES/ SHOVELS/ GRABS/
RIPPERS.
It is hereby declared and agreed notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained in this Policy that in respect of the vehicle
insured * the Insurer shall be under no liability
a.  Under Section I of this Policy in respect of loss or damage
     resulting from overturning arising out of the operation as a
     tool of such vehicle or of plant forming part of such vehicle
     or attached thereto except for loss or damage arising
     directly from ﬁre, explosion, self ignition or lightning or
    burglary housebreaking or theft.
b.  Under Section II except so far as is necessary to meet the
    requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, in respect of
      liability incurred by the insured arising out of the operation
    as a tool of such vehicle or of plant forming part of such
     vehicle or attached thereto.
N. B.: Omit paragraph (a) for:-
1.   Liability only Policies.
2.  Package Policies where an additional premium has been
    paid for inclusion of damage by overturning.
NOTE: * Insert make, number or some other means of
     identiﬁcation.
Where a premium reduction is allowed for exclusion of damage
when in use as a tool of trade omit from paragraph (a) (the words
resulting from “overturning”and “Except for loss”or “Theft”
51. IMT. 48. AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY VEHICLES
AND OTHER MISCELLANEOUS VEHICLES WITH TRAILERS
ATTACHED- EXTENDED COVER
It is hereby declared and agreed that in consideration of an
additional premium of `............., the indemnity provided by this
Policy shall apply in respect of any trailer (including Agricultural
Implements such as Ploughs, Harrows and the like) described in
the under noted Schedule of trailers as though it were a vehicle
described in the Schedule and had set against it in the Schedule
the value set against it in the under noted Schedule of trailers.
Provided that the Insurer shall be under no liability under
Section I of the Policy in respect of breakage of any part of the
agricultural trailer or implements caused by ground
obstructions.
Schedule of Trailers
* Description    Insured’s Declared value (IDV)
* Insert make, number or some other means of identiﬁcation.
Threshing Machines, Drums, Bailing Machines, Trusses and
Tiers must be identiﬁed as such.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
NOTE : In the case of Liability only Policies, the Endorsement
must be suitably amended.
52. IMT. 49. EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY TO THE PUBLIC
WORKING RISK
(Except as required by the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988)
It is hereby declared and agreed that except so far as is
necessary to meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1988, the Insurer shall be under no liability under Section II of
this Policy in respect of liability incurred by the Insured arising
out of the operation as a tool of the Motor Vehicle or of plant
forming part of the Motor Vehicle or attached thereto.
53. IMT. 50. CINEMA FILM RECORDING AND PUBLICITY VANS
It is hereby understood and agreed that not withstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Policy, the insurer
shall be under no liability in respect of loss or damage to
cinematic photographic or sound equipment costumes or any
other technical property ﬁxtures and ﬁttings on the Motor
Vehicle, unless they are ﬁrmly and permanently ﬁxed to the
body of the vehicle and are not detachable from time to time.
54. IMT. 51. MOBILE SHOPS/CANTEENS AND MOBILE
SURGERIES/ DISPENSARIES
It  is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Policy the insurer shall
be under no liability in respect of
*a. Loss of or damage to   .........................** on the motor vehicle.
b.  Death of or bodily injury to or illness of any person caused
    by or through or in connection with or arising from
         i.    Poisoning of any kind or foreign or deleterious matter
           in food or drink
         ii.   Anything harmful in the condition of any goods
         supplied at or from the motor vehicle or the defective
         condition of the container of such goods
         iii.  Anything harmful in the condition of any goods
         supplied at or from the motor vehicle or defective in
        any treatment given at or from the motor vehicle
Notes:-
* For Liability only Policies omit proviso (a)
**I.In the case of “obile Shops and Canteens”insert the words
“tensils or stock-in-trade”and omit (iii)
II. In the case of “obile Surgeries/Dispensaries” insert the words
“urgical instruments medical appliances or supplies”
55. IMT. 52. EXCLUSION OF DAMAGE WHILE IN USE AS A
   TOOL OF TRADE
It is hereby declared and agreed that except so far as is
necessary to meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1988 the insurer shall be under no liability under Section II of this
Policy in respect of liability incurred by the insured arising out of
the operation as a tool of the motor vehicle or of plant forming
part of the vehicle insured or attached thereto.

56. IMT. 53. SPECIFIED ATTACHMENTS (Special Type
    Vehicles)

It is hereby declared and agreed that while any attachment in
the under noted .Schedule of attachments. is attached to the
Motor Vehicle or is detached and out of use the indemnity
provided by this Policy shall apply in respect of any such
attachment as though it were the Motor Vehicle and had set
against it in the Schedule the value set against it in the under
noted .Schedule of Attachments

Schedule of Trailers

*    Description              Insured’s Declared value (IDV)

*   Insert make, number or some other means of identiﬁcation.

NOTE: In the case of pedestrian controlled tractors insert in
‘description’ in the Schedule of Attachments “Any standard
attachment of the Tractor supplied by the makers”

57.  IMT. 54. MOBILE PLANT (Inclusion of Liability to the
Public Working Risk Where Tool of Trade is used only for work
performed in or upon the Vehicle or Trailer.)

It is hereby declared and agreed that except so far as is
necessary to meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1988, the Insurer shall be under no liability under Section II of
this Policy in respect of liability arising out of:-

I.   The explosion of any vessel under pressure being part of
     plant attached to or forming part of the Motor Vehicle.

II.   The operation other than in or upon the Motor Vehicle
    forming part of or attached to

III.  The Motor Vehicle.

58.  IMT. 55. MOBILE PLANT INCLUSION OF LIABILITY TO
THE PUBLIC WORKING RISK (All Other Cases)
It  is hereby understood and agreed that notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Policy the insurer shall
be under no liability under Section II in respect of
I.   Death injury or damage caused by or resulting from
     a. Subsidence ﬂooding or water pollution.
      b. Damage to pipes or cables arising out of the operation
      as a tool of the vehicle insured or of any plant forming
       part of vehicle insured or attached thereto.
II.  Damage to property resulting from the manufacture
     construction alteration repair or treatment of such property
    by the insured.
III.  Death injury or damage caused by or through property on
    which the insured has carried out any process of
    manufacture, construction alteration or repair or treatment.
It is further understood and agreed that except so far as is
necessary to meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act
1988, the insurer shall be under no liability under Section II of
this Policy in respect of liability incurred by the insured arising
out of the explosion of any vessel under pressure being part of
plant attached to or forming part of the vehicle insured.

59.  IMT. 56. TRAILERS (Road Transit Only)

In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is
hereby understood and agreed that insurance by Section I and II
of this Policy shall extend to the Motor Vehicle (mechanically
propelled or otherwise) attached to the Motor Vehicle for the
purpose of being towed
Provided always that
I.   The insurer shall not be liable under this Policy in respect of
    damage to property conveyed by the towed vehicle.
II.   The insurer shall not be liable under this Policy in respect of
     accident loss damage and/or liability caused sustained or
     incurred whilst the vehicle insured is towing a greater
    number of vehicles than is permitted by law.
60.  IMT. 57. MOTORISED TWO WHEELERS (Motor Trade Only)
It is hereby declared and agreed that Item 5 in the Schedule to
this Policy is deemed to have been deleted and the following
substituted there for :
The Motor Vehicle  : Any Motorised Two Wheeler (including
sidecar attached thereto) the property of the insured or insured’s
custody or control whilst bearing Trade Certiﬁcate No...........
It is further declared and agreed that the words “Motor Vehicle”
Wherever they appear are deemed to have been deleted and
substituted by the words ‘Motorised Two Wheeler’.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.

61.  IMT. 58. LOAN OR HIRE OF MOTOR CARS, MOTORISED
TWO WHEELERS, MOTOR VEHICLES TO CUSTOMERS BY
MOTOR DEALERS (Motor Trade Only)

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein it is
hereby understood and agreed that the Motor Car(s), Motorised
Two wheelers, Motor Vehicle(s) described in the Schedule hereto
may be let out on loan or hire to insured’s customers when their
vehicle(s) is/are under repair with the insured.

Provided that the insured agrees to record in a register for the
purposes of this policy the date of loan or hire of such vehicle(s),
its Make and Registered Number (or Chassis Number  if the
loaned/hired vehicle itself is not registered) and the duration of
the loan or hire and to submit to the insurer within one month of
the expiry of each period of insurance a statement of the total
number of days each loaned/hired vehicle was in use.

Provided also that the premium for this Policy shall be subject to
adjustment on expiry of each period of insurance.

Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.

62.  IMT. 59. PRIVATE USE OF VEHICLE BY MEMBER/
DIRECTOR/ EMPLOYEE OF THE INSURED (Motor Trade only)
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of
`....... and notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary it is hereby understood and agreed that this Policy shall
be operative whilst the vehicle insured is being used by the
insured or with the permission of the insured by a Member
Director or employee of the insured for social domestic or
pleasure purposes.

Whilst the vehicle insured is being so used the insurer will in
terms of and subject to the limitations of and for the purpose of
Section  II of this policy treat as though he were the insured
person using the vehicle insured provided that such person :

I.     Is not entitled to indemnity under any other policy;

II.    Shall as though he/she were the insured observe fulﬁll and
    be subject to the terms provisions conditions and
    endorsements of this policy in so far as they apply;

III.  Has not been refused any Motor Vehicle Insurance or
     continuance thereof by any insurer.

Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.

63.  IMT. 60. DEMONSTRATION-DRIVING EXTENSION
(Applicable to Motor Trade Policies Only)

In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of
`....... and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein it is hereby understood and agreed that the policy shall be
operative whilst the vehicles are being driven for the purpose of
demonstration by person(s) not in the employment of the
insured provided he/she/they is/are driving with the insured’s
permission and is/are accompanied by the insured or by any
person(s) in the insured’s employment.

Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.

64. IMT. 61. TUITION -Driving Extension (Applicable only to
Motor Trade Policies issued on named driver basis.)

In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of
`.............................. and notwithstanding anything to the contrary
it is hereby understood and agreed that the policy shall be
operative whilst the vehicles insured are being used for purpose
of demonstration or tuition by any other person, provided he/she
is driving with the insured’s permission and is accompanied by a
named driver mentioned in the policy Schedule.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.

65. IMT. 62. DELETION OF 50% LIMITATION CLAUSE IN
RESPECT OF DAMAGE TO TYRES (Applicable to Motor Trade
Road Transit Risks Policies only)
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of
`.............................. it is hereby understood and agreed that the
words when the liability of the Insurer is limited to 50% of the
cost of the replacement are hereby deleted from proviso (b) of
Section I (1) of the policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of the policy.
66. IMT. 63. Restriction of Cover to Liability Risks only (Motor
    Trade Internal Risks Policy)
It is hereby understood and agreed that
I.   Section I and II(2)(I) and the word .other. in Section II (2)(ii) of
     this Policy in the Schedule to this Policy are deemed to be
     cancelled and
II.  The Insurer shall not be liable in respect of damage to the
    Motor Vehicle or its accessories.

67. IMT. 64. OPEN-AIR CAR PARKS (Motor Trade Internal
    Risks Only)

In consideration of the payment of an additional premium, it is
hereby understood and agreed that for the purpose of this
Policy the Premises shall be deemed to include the car park at
......* superﬁcial area not exceeding **

Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.

* To insert location

** To insert appropriate area

68. IMT. 65. WORK AWAY FROM PREMISES (Motor Trade
Internal Risks Only)

In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is
hereby understood and agreed that the premises are deemed to
include any place at which the insured is performing work not
being premises under the control of the insured provided that
the insurer shall not be liable in respect of injury or damage
resulting from the driving of the vehicle insured in a public place
in INDIA within the meaning of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.

Subject otherwise to the terms conditions limitations and
exceptions of this Policy.

CHAPTER 4 - Limitations as to Use

The Policy covers use of the vehicle for any purpose other than:
Hire or Reward, Carriage of goods (other than samples of
personal luggage), Organised racing, Pace Making, Reliability
trails or Speed testing, any purpose in Connection with Motor
Trade.

CHAPTER 5 - Driver's Clause

Any person including the insured: Provided that a person driving
holds an effective driving license at the time of the accident and
is not disqualiﬁed from holding or obtaining such a license.
Provided also that the person holding an effective learner's
license may also drive the vehicle and that such a person
satisﬁes the requirements of Rule 3 of the Central Motor
Vehicles Rules, 1989.

CHAPTER 6 - Claim Procedure

Details of procedure to be followed for cashless service as well
as for reimbursement of claim-

1)  Claim Intimation: Connect with us via:

•    Toll-free No.: 1800 2666,

•   Our website:
    https://www.icicilombard.com/customer-support,

•   Email ID: customersupport@icicilombard.com,

•    IL TakeCare App or

•   Send "Hi" to RIA on WhatsApp @7738282666.

     Alternatively, you can inform our network garages -
     https:// www.icicilombard.com/cashless-garages.

The customer shall submit all the claim related documents
along with claim form at the time of claim intimation.

In the case of personal accident claim involving owner-driver,
co-passengers/ pillion rider’, customers/representatives/legal
heir, should reach out to our toll-free number: 1800 2666 for
claim intimation.

2)   File an FIR: Only in case of third-party property damage/bodily
      injury, personal accident of owner-driver or co-passenger,
      theft, malicious damage, key loss, or a major accident.

3)  Garage Visit: Report your vehicle to the nearest network
    garage, ﬁnd list here
    https://www.icicilombard.com/cashless-garages

4)  Surveyor Appointment: Your Claims Manager (CSM) will
    contact you and appoint a licensed surveyor basis claim
      eligibility within 24 hours of reporting the claim

5)  Submit Documents: Upload your documents on our
    website, WhatsApp, ILTakecare App or send  it to the
    assigned CSM. For list of required documents, please visit :
    https://eclaim.icicilombard.com/mobilefront/#/home

6)  Repair Approval: Repair estimate will be assessed and
    approved by CSM/ surveyor

7)  Payments: For Cashless Claim - Approved amount will be
    paid directly to the garage. Any balance amount will be
    paid by you (the insured).

8)  For Reimbursement Claim: Approved amount will be paid
     to the Insured’s account as per bank details provided by the
     insured.

9)  Quality Assurance: Quality assurance on workmanship, of
   6 months or 6000 km, post repair, (whichever comes early)
      is available at our preferred partner garages

10) Salvage (Total Loss/ Cash Loss): The amount that is
    assessed which the damaged asset will fetch in the open
    market. (The customer will have the option to retain the
    wreck and accept a ‘cash loss’ settlement.)

11) Turnaround Time (TAT):

     1.  Assessment sheet /Survey report will be furnished
        within 15 days of assessment/ survey.

     2.  Claim will be decided within 7 days of receipt of the
        survey report/ Assessment Sheet, as applicable.

Escalation: Report concerns using the cloud calling number
sent to you on your registered contact number via
SMS/WhatsApp, or call 18002666.

Your Responsibilities in a Third-Party Claim:

•   Ensure the accident victim gets immediate medical help at
    the nearest hospital.

•   Notify us about the accident, including details of those
     injured or deceased.

•   Report the incident to the nearest police station by ﬁling an
     FIR.

•   For additional support, you can contact the Nodal Ofﬁcer
     in your state here
    https://www.icicilombard.com/docs/default-
    source/default-document-library/ motor-third-party-
    claims--statewise-nodal-ofﬁcer-details.pdf

How to File a Motor Personal Accident Claim:
•     If you’e been in an accident with your insured vehicle, call
    us at 1800 2666 for claims related to accidental death or
    permanent total disability.

    Post veriﬁcation of incident and all documents in place as
    per policy terms –Claim will be paid to Insured/Nominee
    account details.

Chapter 7 - Add-on for Private Car Package Insurance Policy

1.  Zero depreciation
UIN:IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0368V01200910
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium by the
Insured as mentioned in policy schedule, it is hereby agreed and
declared that notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in the Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to
deduct no amounts for depreciation in case of parts replaced on
account of damage to the vehicle insured and/or to  its
accessories, arising out of any peril as covered under the Policy.
Provided always that
I.  Such claim has been admitted by the Company under Section I
   - “Loss or Damage to the Vehicles Insured” of the Policy,
II.  This add-on shall not be applicable in the event of Total Loss/
   Constructive Total Loss/Cash loss of the vehicle insured
   under the Policy,
III. The Insured shall be liable for the Voluntary Deductible*
   amount, as opted by the Insured for this add-on, for each and
   every claim payable under this add-on,
IV. This add-on shall not be applicable for any minor scratches
   to the vehicle, paint fading, wear and tear arising out of
   normal use and requiring touch-up or minor repair under
   routine maintenance
V. The customer may limit the number of claims (including
   unlimited claim option) for this cover as per his/ her
   requirement and the same be mentioned in policy schedule.
The customer shall not be entitled for zero depreciation add-on
cover post the limit opted by the customer is exhausted. For
example : If customer has opted for 2 claim limit for the policy
period, in case of third claim, the zero depreciation add-on cover
shall not be applicable.
*Insured can opt for a Voluntary Deductible speciﬁcally for this
add-on, which will be over and above the deductible applied
under the basic Policy. In such a case, the applicable discount
will be provided in the premium calculated for this add-on as
speciﬁed in the policy schedule.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
2.  Consumable Items
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0216V01200910
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of
`....................... by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared
that notwithstanding anything to cover expenses Incurred by
the Insured on the Consumable Items in the event of damage to
the vehicle insured and/or to its accessories, arising out of any
peril as covered under the policy.
For the purpose of this endorsement, Consumable Items shall
mean those articles or substances which have speciﬁc uses and
when applied to their respective uses are either consumed
totally or are rendered unit for continuous and permanent use.
Such Consumable Items will include nut and bolt, screw,
washers, grease, lubricants  clip, ac gas, bearings, distilled
water, engine oil, oil ﬁlter, fuel ﬁlter, break oil and the like.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
3.  Garage Cash
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0256V01200910
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium of
`......................... by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared
that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to:
a.  Pay a daily allowance, as stated in the schedule, to the
    Insured for each and every completed day for which the
    Insured’s vehicle  is under repair in a garage, due to
    loss/damage to the vehicle on account of a peril covered
    under the Policy, subject to the maximum number of days
    as speciﬁed in the schedule
b.  Pay the lump-sum amount as stated in the schedule, in the
    event of Total loss/Cash Loss/Constructive Total Loss of the
    Insured’s vehicle
Provided always that:
I.   Such claim is admitted by the Company under Section I -
    “Loss or Damage to the Vehicles Insured” of the Policy
II.  The insured vehicle has been under repair for a minimum
   number of days, as stated in the schedule, post which the
    claim under this add-on will be payable from the day such
     vehicle was delivered to the garage
III.  In case of theft of the vehicle, the vehicle is not recovered
    within 90 days from the day of the theft.
IV.  Not more than three claims will be payable under this add-on
V.  Claim under this add-on is intimated to the Company within
   24 hours of loss or damage
VI.  Claim under this add-on is serviced in the authorized
    garages of the Company
VII. The duration for which the Insured’s vehicle is under repair
     in a garage due to loss/damage to the vehicle, and for which
    the Company will be liable for claim in respect of this add-
    on will be reckoned from the day after the insured vehicle is
    delivered to the Garage till the day immediately preceding
    the date of discharge or date of invoice for such repair as
    prepared by the garage, whichever is earlier
     a.  The company will not be liable for any further payment
        under this add-on for the speciﬁc accidental loss or
      damage once the vehicle is removed from the garage
VIII. Company will not be liable for any delays on account of-
      a.   Delay of more than 24 hours, in delivering insured
          vehicle to the garage from the time of occurrence of
          accidental damage or loss
      b.   Non-availability of spare parts required for repair
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and limitations of the
Policy.

4.  NCB Protect
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0294V01200910
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
Policy and in consideration of the payment of an additional
premium of `......................... by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and
declared that the Insured will be entitled to No Claims Bonus as
per the following Table 1, under Section I- “Loss or Damage to
the Vehicles Insured”of the Policy.
Plan 1 - One Step Down

                NCB Beneﬁt in the event of XX
                      claims in the current policy
                       period

 Number of prior     XX = 0 XX = 1 XX = 2 XX = 3
  claim free policy
  years

         0        20%   0%   0%   0%

         1        25%   20%   0%   0%

         2        35%   25%   20%   0%

         3        45%   35%   25%   20%

     4 and above     50%   45%   35%   25%

Plan 2 - Two Step Down

                NCB Beneﬁt in the event of XX
                      claims in the current policy
                       period

 Number of prior     XX = 0 XX = 1 XX = 2 XX = 3
  claim free policy
  years

         0        20%   0%   0%   0%

         1        25%   0%   0%   0%

         2        35%   20%   0%   0%

         3        45%   25%   20%   0%

     4 and above     50%   35%   25%   20%

Insured shall not be entitled to any No Claim Bonus, if more than
three claims are lodged by the Insured during the same Policy
Period under Section  I - “Loss or Damage to the Vehicles
Insured” of the Policy.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
5.  Return to Invoice
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0329V02200910
In consideration of payment of an additional premium as
speciﬁed and shown in the Schedule, it is hereby agreed and
declared that notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in the Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to pay
the Sum Insured under this add-on, determined as the
difference between the Insured’s Declared Value (IDV) of the
insured vehicle and the total actual expenses incurred towards
acquisition of a new vehicle of similar make and model to the
insured, as speciﬁed in the on-road price listed by the
manufacturer/Dealer upon the occurrence of Total Loss/
Constructive Total Loss/Cash loss as deﬁned in the Policy
On-road price means the actual expense incurred towards
acquisition of a new vehicle and includes the value of factory
ﬁtted accessories or car dealer accessories at the time of
purchase. On road price will also include any amount paid
towards registration of the insured Vehicle, road tax and cost of
insuring the vehicle.
Important Conditions:
I.   In case of Ownership Transfer Endorsement during the
   policy period this add-on cover would be removed from
   existing motor policy.
II.  In case of obsolete models, the last selling price of the vehicle
    will be considered to pay the Sum Insured under this add-on.
III. In case of second or subsequent owner of the vehicle, the
  sum Insured under this add-on would be determined as the
   difference between the Insured Declared Value (IDV) of the
   Insured Vehicle and the Invoice value of the vehicle at the
   point purchase by the current owner.
IV. In cases where the aforementioned Invoice value is lower
   than the Insured Declared Value (IDV) the maximum claim
   amount payable in an event of Total Loss/ Constructive
   Total Loss /Cash loss/ Total Theft of the vehicle, would be
    limited to the Invoice value of the vehicle at the point of
   purchase by the current owner.
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
6.  Engine Protect Plus
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0015V01201213
In consideration of payment of an additional premium of `............
by the Insured,  it  is hereby agreed and declared that
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to indemnify the
Insured for expenses incurred in repair or replacement due to
consequential damages arising out of water ingression/leakage
of lubricating oil leading to loss or damage to:
•   Engine Parts
•    Differential Parts
•   Gear Box Parts
of the Insured’s vehicle. Provided always that:
1.   For the purpose of this add-on, ‘Consequential Damage’
    would mean “The damage more speciﬁcally expressed here
     in above caused to an insured vehicle not arising directly from
    an insured peril but as a direct consequence to the same”
2.   ‘Engine Parts’ would mean all internal lubricated parts of
    the engine including pistons, pins and rigs, all pulleys
    camshaft, followers, cam bearings, connecting rods and
    bearings, crankshaft and main bearings, dipstick and tube,
     eccentric shaft, engine heads and engine blocks, engine
    mounts and cushions, engine torque strut, ﬂywheel and
    ﬂywheel ring gear, harmonic balancer, intake and exhaust
    manifolds, oil pan, oil pumps, push rods, valves, springs,
    guides, seats, and lifters, rocker arms, shafts, and bushings,
    timing covers, timing gears, chain, belt tensioners,
     retainers, vacuum pump, valve covers, and water pumps.
     fuel injection pump (for diesel engines only) and fuel heater
     (for diesel engines only).
3.   ‘Differential Parts’ would mean all internally lubricated
    parts contained within the differential housing including
    axle shafts, constant velocity joints, bearings, ﬁnal drive
    housing, four wheel drive hubs and bearings, retainers,
    transaxle housing and universal joints, drive shafts, hub
    bearings and supports
4.   ‘Gear Box Parts’ would mean all internally lubricated parts
    contained within the transmission case including cooler,
    cooler lines, ﬁler tubes and dipsticks, internal linkage,
    mounts,  oil pans, torque convertor, transfer case,
    transmission and transfer case, transmission park base
    assembly, vacuum modulator, gear shafts, and gear box.
5.   In case of an accident, payment under this add-on would
    be made only when there is evidence of under carriage
   damage to Engine Parts and/or Gear Box Parts and/or
     Differential Parts leading to oil leakage and resulting into
   damage to covered parts as mentioned above.
6.  The Company would not be liable for:
     a)  Any claims where the subject matter of claims  is
        covered under any other type of insurance policy with
       any other insurer or manufacturer’ warranty including
          recall campaign or under any other such packages at
        the same time.
     b)  Cost of lubricants in case of loss due to leakage and
        ﬂushing of consumables.
     c)  Any claim which is intimated to the Company after 30
       days of the happening of loss or damage.
     d)  Any claim where the repair has been carried out
        without prior approval from the Company
     e)  Any claims related to loss or damage due to wear and tear
7.  Road Side Assistance
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0027V02201213
In consideration of payment of an additional premium of `.......
by the Insured,  it  is hereby agreed and declared that
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to provide the Insured,
upon his request, with a maximum of four claims related to any
one or more of the following emergency assistance services
during the Policy Period, in any area where the Company has its
presence through its network garages or through the network of
the service provider:
1.  Towing on breakdown/accident: In the event of the
     Insured’s vehicle being immobilized or rendered unﬁt for
    the purpose of driving on the road, the Company would
    provide appropriate towing services to the nearest garage
     (within a radius of _______ kms, as speciﬁed in policy
     schedule, from the location of the breakdown/accident),
    provided always that any charges for a distance beyond
    the one mentioned herein shall be borne by the Insured.
2.  Breakdown support over phone: In the event of minor
    mechanical errors/faults/non-functioning of the Insured’s
     vehicle or any part thereof, the Company would provide the
    Insured with telephonic assistance to come up with
     solutions for such minor mechanical errors/faults/non-
     functioning of the Insured’s vehicle.
3.  Arrangement/Supply of fuel: In the event of the Insured’s
     vehicle being immobilized due to emptying of fuel tank, the
   Company would arrange for supply of up to ﬁve liters of
      fuel, at the location of the breakdown. Provided always
     that all labor costs and conveyance costs would be borne
    by the Company and all expenses on fuel would be borne
    by the Insured.
4.  Emptying of fuel tank: In the event of the fuel tank of the
     Insured’s vehicle being ﬁlled with a wrong type of fuel, the
   Company would arrange for emptying of fuel tank with the
    help of appropriate technicians and if required, arrange for
    towing the Insured’s vehicle to nearest garage for the
    purpose of emptying the fuel tank, provided always that all
    charges towards the towing of the vehicle would be borne
    by the Insured.
5.  Arrangement of keys: In the event of the Insured losing the
    keys of the Insured’s vehicle, the Company would arrange for
     pick up and delivery of the spare keys of the Insured’s vehicle
     to the place where the Insured’s vehicle is located.
     Alternatively, the Company would provide the service of
     unlocking the Insured’s vehicle with the help of vehicle
     technicians at the location of the Insured’s vehicle. Provided
    always that all labour and conveyance costs would be borne
    by the Company and the Insured would be required to submit
    an identity proof to prove his ownership of the Insured’s
     vehicle, before availing such service. Provided always that
     this service would be provided only within a range of 100
    kms from the location where the loss has occurred.
6.   Battery jump start: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle
    being immobilized due to a run down battery, the Company
    would arrange for a vehicle technician to jump start the
     Insured’s vehicle with appropriate means. Provided always
     that any cost of charging/replacement of battery would be
    borne by the Insured and all labour and conveyance costs,
    towards battery jump start assistance, would be borne by
    the Company.
7.  Message Relay: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle getting
    immobilized as a result of an accident and/or breakdown,
    the Company would arrange to send urgent message to
    the speciﬁed persons, as requested by the Insured, through
     available means of communication.
8.   Flat Tyre: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle being
    immobilized due to a ﬂat tyre, the Company would assist
    the Insured by:
a.   organizing for a vehicle technician to replace the ﬂat tyre
    with the spare stepney tyre of the vehicle at the location of
    breakdown or in the event of repairs not being possible at
    the place of breakdown
b.  by arranging to take the ﬂat tyre to the nearest place of
     repair and delivering the tyre back to the place of
    breakdown & attaching it to the Insured’s vehicle.
Provided always that any expenses on material/spare parts and
any other incidental costs, if required while carrying out the
repairs, would be borne by the Insured and the expenses on
labour cost and conveyance cost, in relation to point (a) and (b)
above, would be borne by the Company.
9.  Minor Repairs: In the event of the Insured vehicle being
    immobilized due to a minor mechanical/electrical fault or
    minor accident, the Company would assist the Insured by
    sending a vehicle technician to the location of breakdown
     or accident to carry out the Minor Repairs as mentioned in
     policy schedule. Provided always that
a.  The expenses on labour cost and conveyance cost would
    be borne by the Company
b.   Minor Repairs, for the purpose of this add-on, would be
    deﬁned as repairs which can be carried out at the location
     of breakdown/ accident, requiring no spares and less than
    45 minutes of labour time.
10. Arrangement of rental vehicle: In the event of the Insured’s
     vehicle being immobilized due to a breakdown/accident,
    the Company would facilitate arrangement for alternative
   mode of conveyance, from the place of breakdown
     /accident, to the destination, as desired by the Insured at
    the time of breakdown/accident. The Company would
     intimate the Insured of all charges payable to the rental
     vehicle and all such charges would be borne by the Insured.
11. Arrangement of Accommodation: In the event of the
    Insured’s vehicle being immobilized due to a
    breakdown/accident, the Company would facilitate
    arrangement for hotel accommodation in a place near the
    place of breakdown/accident. The Company would
    intimate the Insured of  all charges payable for such
    accommodation and all such charges would be borne by
    the Insured.
12.  Referring a Legal Advisor: In the event of an accident
     involving the Insured’s vehicle as a result of which the
     Insured requires the services of a legal advisor, the Company
    would arrange for the Insured the telephonic contact details
     of an appropriate legal advisor belonging to an area as
    requested by the Insured. Provided always that:
i.   the breakdown/accident has taken place atleast 50 kms
   away from the Insured’s place of residence, as per the
    address declared by the Insured at the time of Policy
    issuance
ii.   the Company would intimate the Insured of all charges
    payable for the services of such legal advisor and all such
    charges would be borne by the Insured.
13. Referring a Hospital: In the event of an accident involving
    the Insured’s vehicle as a result of which the Insured and/or
    any of the travelling passengers requires medical care, the
   Company would arrange for the Insured the telephonic
    contact details of an appropriate hospital near the location
     of accident. Provided always that the breakdown/accident
    has taken place atleast 50 kms away from the Insured’s
    place of residence, as per the address declared by the
    Insured at the time of Policy issuance.
14.  Taxi Beneﬁts: In the event of the Insured’s vehicle being
     immobilized due to an accident/breakdown, the Company shall
     provide free travel of the occupants of the Insured vehicles upto a
     distance of 50 kilometers. Provided always that:
a.  The event has occurred 50kms away from the Insured’s
    place of residence as declared by the Insured at the time of
     policy issuance.
b.  Any charges for a distance beyond the covered distance as
    stated above shall be borne by the Insured.
In the unlikely event of the Company being unable to arrange for
this service, the Company may request the Insured to arrange
for the taxi on his own and submit the bill for the pre-authorized
amount for reimbursement to the Company.
15. Accommodation Beneﬁts: In the event of the Insured’s
    vehicle being immobilized due to a an accident/
    breakdown, the Company shall provide occupants of the
    Insured vehicle with a hotel accommodation for one day,
     for a maximum of ` 5000. Provided always that:
a.  The breakdown/accident has taken place at least 100 kms
   away from the Insured’s place of residence, as declared by
    the Insured at the time of Policy issuance.
b.  The required time of repair of the Insured vehicle exceeds
    12 hours from the time of the accident/breakdown.
c.  The number of individuals seated in the Insured vehicle is
    not more than the maximum seating capacity of the
    Insured vehicle.
In the unlikely event of Company being unable to arrange for this
service, the Company may request the Insured to arrange for
accommodation on his own and submit the bill for the pre-
authorized amount for reimbursement to the Company.
16. Service Assure
     In the event of the Insured vehicle being immobilized due to
    an accident/breakdown, the Company will assure that the
    towing vehicle will reach the accident / breakdown spot /
     location shared by insured, within stipulated timelines as
    mentioned in policy schedule, for the purposes of:
      a. Towing on breakdown/accident (emergency
         assistance services No. 1); and
      b.  Minor Repairs (emergency assistance services No. 9)
      In case the towing vehicle does not reach the location
within the speciﬁed time, the Company shall endeavor to
send its representative to assist the customer and make
necessary arrangements for towing of the vehicle. The
Insured at its own option may deliver the possession of the
insured vehicle to the Company's representative for
necessary repairs at the network garage as per policy
terms. However, if the towing vehicle/ the representative
of the Company is not able to reach the spot / location
within the speciﬁed timelines, the Company shall extend
the following beneﬁts to the insured:
(i)  The customer shall be entitled to receive beneﬁt of
    other services, as speciﬁed above, which are not part
    of the policy certiﬁcate;
(ii) Personalized telephonic assistance services by claim
    expert;
(iii) Customer distress assistance/ support;
(iv) Identiﬁcation of causes of vehicle breakdown & vehicle
   check-up; and
(v) Replenishment of the First-Aid Kit.
The above mentioned  beneﬁts shall be provided to the
customers on receipt of service request through the
Company's designated communication channels
like call centre no. – (1800 2666), mobile app. –
(IL TakeCare), website - (www.icicilombard.com)
The abovementioned service(s)  / beneﬁts shall not be
available in the following circumstances:
•  The location of the vehicle is in a remote, inaccessible,
    or legally restricted area, including but not limited to
    forest zones, off-road terrain, or restricted access
   zones;
•  Where the information furnished by the Insured is
   inaccurate, incomplete, or misleading, including
    incorrect location details, vehicle condition, or contact
    particulars;
•  Where the Insured Vehicle is rendered non-repairable
    (on-site) and non-towable due to mechanical failure,
   and workshop-level repairs are mandatorily required.
•  The vehicle would require necessary towing since on-
    site servicing would violate manufacturer's safety or
   warranty guidelines.
•  The service(s) will not be available in case of any force
   majeure, natural event or manmade disturbance.
Road Side Assistance Add-on is subject to the other terms,
conditions, limitations and exclusions of the underlying
policy.
The Company would not be liable for:
1. Providing the abovementioned services under
    conditions of earthquake, war, invasion, rebellion,
    revolt,  riot,  civil commotion,  civil war, exceptional
   adverse weather conditions, acts of terrorism, nuclear
    ﬁssion, strike, act(s) of government(s)/ government
    agencies/judicial/ quasi- judicial authorities.
2. Any claims where the Insured's vehicle is being used
    for the purpose of racing, rallying, motor-sports, or is
   not being used/driven in accordance with applicable
   laws and regulations.
3. Any claim where the Insured's vehicle can be safely
   transferred on  its own power to the nearest
   garage/workshop.
4. Any claims triggered by theft; any kind of
         consequential losses.
      5. Any loss which is covered under any other insurance
          policy or manufacturer' warranty or recall campaign or
        under any other such packages at the same time.
      6. Any expenses for supply or replacement of parts/
        consumables.
      7. Any loss/damage caused to the Insured's vehicle when
              it is being used/driven against the recommendations of
         the owner's/manufacturer's manual.
      8. Any claims where services have been availed of
        without the prior consent of the Company.
8.  Key Protect
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0019V01201213
In consideration of payment of an additional premium of
`...................... by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Policy,
the Company hereby undertakes to pay upto an amount as stated
in the Schedule, to indemnify the Insured for the cost incurred
towards repairing/replacing the car keys and/or locks and/ or
lockset, including the locksmith charges, upon the occurrence of
theft/burglary/loss of or damage to the keys and/or lock and/or the
lockset of the Insured’s vehicle, during the Policy Period.
Provided always that
1.  Not more than two claims would be payable under this add-
    on for a Policy Period
2.  A claim deductible of 1% of the admissible claim amount
    would apply for each claim, subject to a minimum of `250.
3.  A claim resulting from burglary or theft is supported by a
     First Information Report (FIR) with the Police
4.  The replaced keys/lock/lockset should be of same nature
    and kind as the one for which the claim is being made
5.  Any loss or damage to the keys/lock/lockset is reported to
    the Company within 30 days of such loss or damage
6.  Replacement of key(s) only would be done only for broken or
   damaged keys. In case of theft of key(s), entire set
    comprising of key, lock and lockset would be replaced.
7.  The Company would not be liable for:
a.  Any claim within the ﬁrst 5 days of he happening of loss.
    However, in cases related to theft/burglary, this exclusion
    would not be applicable
b.  Any damage/loss to keys/lock/lockset due to malicious
      activities, any deliberate or criminal act
c.  Any loss or damage to the lock or lockset prior to the loss or
     theft of keys
d.  Any loss or damage to the lock only
e.  Any loss or damage covered under the manufacturer’ warranty
f.   Any claim where the Insured is not able to provide the
     invoices/ receipts for the payments made
g.  Any loss or damage caused by radiation, radioactive
    contamination or the hazardous properties of any explosive,
     corrosive, invasive or toxic substance or material.
h.  Any loss or destruction of, or damage to, any part of the
     Insured’s vehicle other than the keys of the Insured’s vehicle,
      its associated lock, ignition system, any immobilizer,
     infrared handset and/or alarm attached to the fob.
i.   Loss or damage caused by war, invasion, foreign enemy
      hostilities (whether war is declared or not), civil war, terrorism,
     rebellion, revolution, military force or coup, or the actions of
    any lawful government or public or local authority.
j.   Any kind of consequential losses
9.  Loss of Personal Belongings
    UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0021V02201213
    Plan A
     In consideration of payment of an additional premium of
         `............. by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that
    notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
     Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to indemnify the
    Insured and family, an amount as stated in the Schedule, for
    the loss of his personal belongings on account of damage to
     or theft from the Insured's vehicle. Provided always that any
    claim admissible exclusively under this add-on, without any
    involvement of Own Damage which includes Vehicle Theft
     claim, shall not impact the No Claim Bonus eligibility under
    the Policy.
    Provided always that:
      1.  A deductible of `500 would be applicable for each
         claim under this add-on
     2.  A First Investigation Report (FIR) is registered with the
          Police for such loss
     3.   Family shall mean & include the proposer and any one
         or more of the family members as mentioned below:
               (i)   Legally wedded spouse.
                (ii)  Parents and Parents-in-law.
                (iii)  Children (i.e. natural or legally adopted)
             (iv) And siblings of the proposer
     4.  The Company would not be liable for:
           a.  Any loss in open top or convertible cars unless the
             belongings are kept in the locked boot
           b.  Any loss of money, securities, cheques, bank
               drafts, credit or debit cards, jewellery, gems,
             stones, contact lens, glasses, travel tickets,
           watches includes smart watches, laptops,
              mobiles, valuables, manuscripts, paintings, work
              of art.
            c.  Any loss of the personal belongings unless
             the Insured's vehicle  is locked and  all doors
          & windows are properly fastened while
             unattended.
           d.  Any loss of or damage to belongings carried in
             connection with any trade or business
           e.  Any theft from vehicles parked in no-parking zone
           and from unattended vehicle after accident
    Plan B
     In consideration of payment of an additional premium of
         `.............. by the Insured it is hereby agreed and declared that
    notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
     Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to indemnify the
     Insured and family an amount as stated in the Schedule, for
    the loss of his personal belongings, including mobile phones
    and/or laptops and/or smart watches on account of damage
     to or theft from the Insured's Vehicle. Provided always that
    any claim admissible exclusively under this add-on, without
    any involvement of Own Damage which includes Vehicle
     Theft claim, shall not impact the No Claim Bonus eligibility
    under the Policy.
    Provided always that:
     1.  A deductible of ` 500 would be applicable for each
         claim under this add-on, except when the claim is being
       made only for mobile phones and/or laptops
     2.  A First Investigation Report (FIR) is registered with the
          Police for such loss
     3.   Family shall mean & include the proposer and any
        one or more of the family members as mentioned
         below:
               (i)   Legally wedded spouse.
                (ii)  Parents and Parents-in-law.
                (iii)  Children (i.e. natural or legally adopted)
             (iv) And siblings of the proposer
     4.  The Company would not be liable for:
           a.  Any loss in open top or convertible cars unless
             the belongings are kept in the locked boot
           b.  Any loss of money, securities, cheques, bank
                drafts, credit or debit cards, jewellery, gems,
              stones, contact lens, glasses, travel tickets,
           watches except smart watches, valuables,
             manuscripts, paintings, work of art.
            c.  Any loss of the personal belongings unless the
              Insured’s vehicle  is locked and  all doors &
         windows are properly fastened while
             unattended.
           d.  Any loss of or damage to belongings carried in
             connection with any trade or business
           e.  Any theft from vehicles parked in no-parking
           zone and from unattended vehicle after
             accident
                f.   Any amount more than the market value of the
             mobile phones or laptops as stated at the time
              of Policy issuance, deducted appropriately for
              depreciation as per the Section 32 of Income
            Tax Act.
10. Tyre Protect
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0001V01201819
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium as
speciﬁed and shown in the policy schedule, the Company will
cover expenses for repair and/or replacement, as may be
necessitated arising out of accidental loss or damage to tyre(s)
and/or tube(s) due to,
1.  Tyre side wall indentations due to external impact
2.  Tyre burst due to incorrect air pressure
3.  Damaged to tyre(s) and/or tubes due to external impact
The company will cover reimbursement of repair and/or
replacement as per the scale given below:
1.  Where repair of the damaged tyre is possible - Cost of
     repair
2.  Where repair of the damaged tyre is not possible - As
    per scale mentioned below:
 Unused Tread       Reimbursement % of cost of new
 Depth*                 tyre(s) and/or tube(s)
 >=7mm                     100%
 >=5mm to <7mm              75%
 >=3mm to <5mm              50%
 <3mm                    0%
*Unused Tread depth will be measured at the centre of the
tread. Minimum 4 measurements at 4 different places will be
taken for the purpose of arriving at mean tread depth which
will be the basis of indemnity under the coverage.
In any situation, the company’ liability would not exceed the
cost arrived basis the unused tread depth of respective tyre as
per the scale given above.
Provided always that
1.  This add-on will not apply to total loss/Cash Loss/
   constructive total loss (TL/CTL) of the insured vehicle.
2. The tyre(s) and/or tube(s) is/are repaired/replaced with
    prior authorization from ICICI Lombard GIC Company
    Limited.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions conditions and
limitations of this Policy.
Claim under this add-on will have no impact on NO claim
bonus earned on the base comprehensive policy. NO claim
bonus will remain intact even after a claim under this add-on.
Important Conditions:
1.   If during the Period of insurance any tyre(s) and/or tube(s)
    is/are replaced for any reason for which claim is not
   preferred under the coverage, cover on new tyre(s) and/or
    tube(s) would not be available unless details of new tyre(s)
   and/or tube(s) are informed to us within 15 days and the
   same is endorsed on the policy.
2.  All claims must be made/intimated to us within 3 days of
   damage. However, this condition is not applicable when
   there  is a delay in intimation due to unavoidable
    circumstances.
3.  Tyre Protect is available as an add-on coverage to a
   customer purchasing ICICI Lombard GIC Company Limited
   Comprehensive Motor Insurance Policy.
4. Whenever replacement of tyre(s) and/or tube(s) will be
   allowed, it will be of the same make and speciﬁcation as
   ﬁtted by the OEM's. However, if tyre(s) and/or tube(s) of
    similar speciﬁcation is not available and replaced tyre(s)
   and/or tube(s) is/are superior to damaged one then we will
   not be liable for differential amount.
5. Maximum of 4 (four) replacements of tyre(s) and/or tube(s)
    will be allowed during the Period of Insurance ie. for policy
    of 12 months.
6.  In case of replacement of four tyre(s) and/or tube(s) for
   which a claim is preferred under the coverage, replaced
    tyre(s) and/or tube(s) can be reinstated by way of
   endorsement by paying requisite premium.
7.   If damage to tyre(s) and/or tube(s) is/are due to the
   accidental damage to the insured vehicle covered under
  “Own Damage” section of the policy. ICICI Lombard GIC
   Company Limited liability under this cover will be restricted
    to the difference of depreciation percentage applied under
  “Own Damage” section and as mentioned above basis the
   unused tread depth.
Exclusions:
ICICI Lombard will not be liable:
1.  For loss or damage arising out of natural wear and tear,
   mechanical failure or improper suspension geometry as
   speciﬁed by manufacturer.
2.  For any loss or damage within ﬁrst 15 days of inception of
   the policy.
3.  For any loss or damage occurred prior to inception of the
    policy
4.  For any loss or damage resulting into total loss of the
    vehicle
5.  For theft of tyre(s)/tube(s) or its parts accessories without
    vehicle being stolen or theft of entire vehicle.
6.  For any loss or damage resulting into total loss/Cash
   Loss/Constructive total loss of the insured vehicle
7.   If repair/replacement of tyres done at unauthorized garage
8.   If the tyre(s) and/or tube(s) being claimed is different from
   tyre(s) and/or tube(s) insured/supplied as original
   equipment along with the vehicle unless informed to us and
   mentioned/endorsed on the policy.
9.  For loss or damage arising out of any manufacturing defect
   or design including manufacturer's recall.
10. For minor damage or scratch not affecting the functioning
11. If the tyre(s) and/or tube(s) is/are repaired/replaced without
    prior authorization from ICICI Lombard GIC Company Limited
12. For tyre(s) which has/have been used for its full speciﬁed life
   as per manufacturer's guideline or where unused tread
   depth is less than 3 mm.
   •   Unused Tread depth will be measured at the centre of
        the tread. Minimum 4 measurements at 4 different
        places will be taken for the purpose of arriving at mean
        tread depth which will be the basis of indemnity under
        the coverage.
13. Where a loss is covered with any other manufacturer's
   warranty or recall campaign or under any other such
   packages at the same time
14. For any excess mentioned in Policy schedule
15. For the difference if any between the cost of the superior
    tyre(s) and/or tube(s) and that of the tyre(s) and/or tube(s)
    of similar speciﬁcation, used for replacement.
11. EMI Protect
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0001V01202021
In consideration of the payment of `...................by the Insured, it
is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding anything
to the contrary contained in the Policy, the Company hereby
undertakes to:
Pay the total liable EMI amount, as stated in the schedule, to the
Insured for which the Insured's vehicle is under repair in a
garage, due to loss/damage to the vehicle on account of a peril
covered under the Policy, subject to the minimum number of
days of vehicle in garage as stated in schedule.
Insured has an option to choose the number of EMI (Subject to
min of 1 and Max 6) and time excess (subject to min of 7 days).
The number of EMI payable will depend on the number of days
the vehicle is under repair in garage as per below table.
    Number of Days in Garage      No of EMI*
              0-30                    1
             31-60                   2
             61-90                   3
            91-120                   4
            121-150                  5
            151-180                  6
            > 180                   6
Subject to maximum EMI selected by the customer & the
minimum time excess The insured has an option to choose from
the following time excess options:

        Time Excess (Minimum Number of Days)

                       7 days

                       10 days

                       14 days

                       21 days

                       28 days

Provided always that:
1) Such claim is admitted by the Company under Section I –
   “Loss or Damage to the Vehicles Insured” of the Policy
2) Number of EMIs payable will depend on option exercised by
   the insured or sum insured mentioned in policy whichever is
   lower and is subject to repair time exceeding the Time
   Excess speciﬁed for each option.
3)  Actual repair time will be counted from the next calendar
   day after the insured vehicle is delivered to the Garage
   along with intimation of claim & submission of all required
   claim documents to the insurer  till the day immediately
   preceding the date of discharge or re-inspection or date of
   invoice for such repair as prepared by the garage,
   whichever is earlier
4) Claim under this add-on is intimated to the Company within
   5 days of loss or damage
5) The vehicle is repaired at a network garage of the company.
6) Submission of statement of account from the ﬁnancier for
   the asset (vehicle) insured.
Special Exclusions:
Company will not be liable for any claim on account of –
a.  Delay of more than 5 days, in delivering insured vehicle to
   the garage from the time of occurrence of accidental
  damage or loss
b.  Non-availability of spare parts required for repair
c.  Any due amount because of default or non-payment or
   delayed payment
d.  For more than one covered incident per policy year.
e. Any other consequential loss or charges associated with
   the loan payment such as late payment charges, pre-
   payment charges or other documentation charges.
f.  Default in payment of EMI in the last one year preceding the
   date of accident.
g.  Report of total loss or theft of the vehicle.
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and limitations of the
Policy.
12. Emergency Medical Expenses
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0002V01202122
Subject otherwise to the terms, exceptions, conditions and
limitations of this Policy, and in consideration of the payment of
an additional premium by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and
understood that notwithstanding any other terms contrary
under the Policy,
The Company will be liable for the below mentioned Emergency
medical expenses incurred for the treatment of bodily
injury/injuries sustained by insured and/or any occupant of the
vehicle in direct relation with insured vehicle The injury/injuries
sustained in an accident to be whilst mounting and
dismounting from or driving or travelling in the insured vehicle
caused by violent, accidental external and visible means
requiring necessary medical treatment in any Hospital or any
clinic or nursing home.
1.  Accidental Hospitalisation – The Company shall
    reimburse the accidental medical expenses incurred by the
    insured and/or any other occupant(s) travelling in the
    insured vehicle (as per the registered seating capacity)
    towards the treatment of bodily injury sustained in an
    accident involving the insured vehicle.
   The aggregate liability of the Company under the said cover
     for all the occupants will be limited up to the Sum Insured
    mentioned against the said cover in the Policy Schedule.
2.  Ambulance Cover – The Company shall:
a.  Arrange ground medical transportation by an ambulance
     service provider to transport the Insured Person and/or any
    other occupant(s) travelling in the insured vehicle from the
     site of accident to the nearest Hospital or any clinic or
    nursing home for medical necessary treatment as
    available in that particular city/location. This is merely a
    telephonic assistance service and is subject to availability
     of the service provider in the location of the accident. There
    are no restrictions on the number of times the telephonic
    ambulance assistance can be availed.
b.  And also reimburse the expenses incurred by the insured
    and/or any occupant(s) for hiring an ambulance for such
     transportation. The aggregate liability of the Company
    towards the cost of hiring an ambulance for all the injured
    occupants will be limited up to the Sum Insured mentioned
    against the said cover in the Policy Schedule.
3.  Hospital Daily Cash – If insured and/or any occupant(s)
     travelling in the insured vehicle, suffers an Injury due to an
    Accident that occurs during the Policy Period and which
    solely and directly requires the injured occupant(s)
     travelling in the insured vehicle to be Hospitalized, then We
     will pay the daily amount speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule
    against this cover for each continuous and completed day
     of Hospitalization of the injured person(s).
   The Company shall not be liable to pay the daily amount for
    more than the maximum number of days as speciﬁed in the
     Policy Schedule, during the Policy Period. Further the
    number of injured to whom the claim will be paid under the
    cover will be limited to the number as opted by the insured
   and duly mentioned under the policy Schedule.
   The Company's liability to make any payment under this
    cover shall be in excess of the per event Franchise, stated in
    the Policy Schedule, as applicable.
     Illustration: If there is a Franchise of two days under this
    beneﬁt and the injured occupant of the insured vehicle is
    admitted in a hospital for one day, then this beneﬁt shall not
    be payable . However, if the injured occupant is hospitalized
     for more than two days, then he shall be entitled under this
    beneﬁt for all days of hospitalization limited to sum insured
    mentioned under the policy schedule.
4.  Tele Consultation -  If insured and/or any occupant(s)
     travelling in the insured vehicle, requires any medical
    emergency assistance that occurs during the Policy Period,
    they can avail Telephonic/Virtual Consultation through
    mobile application speciﬁed in the Policy Certiﬁcate.
    Telephonic/Virtual Consultation service can be availed as
   many times as mentioned in policy schedule.
(i)    It  is agreed and understood that the Insured Person/
    occupant(s) is/are free to choose whether or not to obtain
    the expert opinion, and if obtained then whether or not to
    act on it;
(ii)  Under this Beneﬁt, We are only providing the Insured
    Person/occupant(s) with access to consultations or opinion
   and we shall not be deemed to substitute the Insured
    Person's/occupant(s) visit or consultation to an
    independent Medical Practitioner.
Provided always that
1.  Such claims are admitted by the Company under Section I –
    “Loss or Damage to the Vehicles Insured” of the Policy,
    except for Tele Consultation service.
2.  Claim under this add-on is intimated to the Company
    within 5 days of occurrence of incident, however, this
    condition  is not applicable when there  is a delay in
    intimation due to unavoidable circumstances.
3.  Accident has occurred in direct connection with insured
     vehicle whilst driving the vehicle including mounting into/
    dismounting from or traveling in the insured vehicle.
4.  The limit on the number of claims that can be made and the
    aggregate liability to be paid during the policy period will
    be restricted to the sum insured mentioned against each of
    the coverage's separately.
5.  The beneﬁt under this section is NOT payable in case the
    number of persons/ passengers traveling in the insured
    vehicle  is more than the number speciﬁed in the
     registration certiﬁcate valid at the time of occurrence of
    such accident.
6.  Submission of original Bills / Reports / Prescriptions/Indoor
    case papers and Hospital discharge summary shall be
    required for reimbursement of all such claims.
Deﬁnition for the purpose of this add-on:
Franchise means a minimum amount of loss that must be
incurred before insurance coverage applies. Once the
Deductible is met, the entire beneﬁt amount is paid, subject to
the Policy terms and conditions.
Hospital/Nursing Home/Clinic means any institution
established for in- patient care and day care treatment of
illness and / or injuries and which has been registered as a
hospital/nursing home/clinic with the local authorities under the
Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulations) Act
2010 or under enactments speciﬁed under the Schedule of
Section 56(1) of the said Act.
Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, tests,
medication, or stay in hospital or part of a stay in hospital
which:
-    is required for the medical management of the injury
    suffered by the insured or any other occupant travelling in
    the insured vehicle;
-   must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe,
    adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, duration,
    or intensity;
-   must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner;
-   must conform to the professional standards widely
    accepted in international medical practice or by the
    medical community in India.
Pre-existing diseases means any condition, ailment, injury or
disease:
a)  That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months
     prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer
    or its reinstatement or
b)  For which medical advice or treatment was recommended
     by, or received from, a physician within 48 months prior to
    the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its
    reinstatement.
“Telephonic/Virtual Consultation” shall mean any consultations
provided by Medical Practitioners/Healthcare Professionals
through a virtual mode of communication, such as via audio,
video, online portal, chat or mobile application for routine health
query or second opinion.
Speciﬁc Exclusions:
a.  Any expenses related to a sickness, disease or medical
    disorder not directly consequential to accident.
b.  Any expenses related to pre-existing diseases or medical
     disorders, except for Tele consultation service
c.  Any physiotherapy treatment.
d.  Any expense not supported by an original and valid bill /
     receipt and related prescription of the attending Medical
     Practitioner / Hospital / Nursing Home.
e.  Any expenses for treatment commenced after 3 days from
    the date of accident.
f.   Not more than sum-insured as mentioned in the schedule
    during per policy tenure.
g.  Any expense arising or resulting from or traceable to
    intentional self- injury, suicide or attempted suicide
    physical defect or inﬁrmity.
h.  Any expense arising or resulting from or traceable to an
    accident happening due to the inﬂuence of intoxicating
     liquor or drugs.
Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions condition &
limitations of the policy.
13. Motor Floater
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0009V01202223
In consideration of the payment of `........................ by the
Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared that notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in the Policy, the Company
hereby undertakes to offer below mentioned beneﬁts:
Beneﬁt offered
•   To offer a single policy irrespective of the number of
    vehicles owned by proposer* and an option to have
     different sub-limits/IDV for each vehicle.
•   Different vehicle may have different risk start date, based
   on the respective due dates of insurance of each vehicle.
    However, the risk end date of all the vehicles would be
    aligned with the risk end date of the vehicle which has the
     earliest risk start date.

 Components       PVT 01  PVT 02   TW 01

 Previous Year Policy    8-Jul-22  10-Aug-22  15-Sep-22
 End date

 Floater Policy Risk     9-Jul-22  11-Aug-22  16-Sep-22
 Start Date

 Floater Policy Risk     8-Jul-23   8-Jul-23     8-Jul-23
 End Date

•  As shown above, the risk end date of all the 3 vehicles are
    aligned which will help insured to have similar risk start
    date during next renewal.
•   For aligning the risk start dates the premiums are
    calculated on pro rata basis, wherever the risk period of the
    vehicle is less than 12 months.
Explanation & deﬁnitions of Add on features-
•   *Proposer for Motor Floater is deﬁned as an individual who
    can pool their-own or their family member's vehicles in a
    single policy using the Motor Floater add-on.
•   Family shall mean & include the proposer and any one or
   more of the family members as mentioned below:
       (I)  Legally wedded spouse.
       (ii)  Parents and Parents-in-law.
       (iii) Children (i.e. natural or legally adopted)
      (iv) And siblings of the proposer
•  Sum Insured for the purpose of Motor Floater Add-on
   would mean-
   Summation of Insured declared value (IDV) of each of the
    vehicles covered in the ﬂoater policy will be the Motor
    Floater Sum-Insured**.
*IDV is deﬁned as the amount which is determined and agreed
upon between the insurer and the proposer/insured with
respect to any insured vehicle at the inception of the policy
period, up to which indemniﬁcation shall be allowed in case of
loss in any single incidence/event.
**Motor Floater Sum-Insured  is deﬁned as the maximum
amount in case of any single incidence/event, available to be
utilised by any/all the vehicles covered under the Floater Policy
subject to the individual vehicle IDV. The Sum Insured can
change on renewal or with mid-term inclusion & exclusion of a
vehicle.
•   Mid Term inclusion of vehicles-
    Proposer/ insured can add a new vehicle to the motor ﬂoater
    during the currency of the policy provided that it falls under
    the preview of the add-on. Premium for such vehicle
    included shall be paid by proposer/ insured as a separate
    charge calculated on pro rata basis for the remaining period
     of the policy. The ﬂoater sum insured would get increased to
    the extent of IDV of new vehicles added.
•   Mid Term exclusion of vehicles-
    Mid Term exclusion may be necessitated by total loss/ Cash
    Loss/Constructive Total Loss (CTL)/ total-theft of a vehicle
    or sale of any one or more of the vehicles by the insured
    included in the ﬂoater add on.
     In case of Sale/ ownership transfer of any one of the vehicle,
    refund would be done as per terms of the base policy.
In case of total loss/CTL/Cash Loss/total-theft of any vehicle,
the ﬂoater add on would continue with the remaining vehicles
in the policy.
For the above scenarios, ﬂoater sum insured would get
decreased to the extent of IDV of the excluded vehicles.
Other coverage & Exclusions would be as per the base policy.
Cancellations & endorsements as applicable would be guided
as per the base policy terms & conditions.
14. Telematics
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0017V01202223
STANDARD FORM
Whereas the insured by a proposal and declaration dated as
stated in the Schedule which shall be the basis of this contract
and is deemed to be incorporated herein has applied to the
Company for the Add-on cover hereinafter contained and has
paid the premium mentioned in the schedule as consideration
for such cover in respect of accidental loss or damage occurring
to the insured vehicle during the period of insurance.
NOW THIS ADDON WITNESSETH
That subject to the Terms Exceptions and Conditions contained
herein or endorsed or expressed hereon;
SCOPE OF COVER:
Telematics Add-on shall be offered with the Base Motor
Insurance policy,of either Private car or Two Wheeler and all
covers, regulations and exclusions of the base motor policy
would apply to the policy with Telematics add-on also.
Plans under Telematics Add-on (Add-on would be applicable
to Section 1 of the policy only i.e Motor Own Damage, Fire &
Theft)
1)  Pay As You Use (PAYU) plan: This Add-on would convert
the base motor product into an Asset cum Usage based
product. The Premium charged for the insurance of the base
motor vehicle would depend partially on the usage  i.e.,
Kilometres clocked or estimated Kilometres to be clocked
during the tenure of the policy.
•   The Add-on would be offered with Base product, covering
     different Kilometer ranges as opted by the Insured. Insured
     will have an option to top-up for additional Kilometers (by
    paying additional premium) once the Kilometers opted in
    the Initial plan is exhausted during the policy period.
•   The Kilometer based plan (initial & top-ups) would cover
    only the perils against section-1 of the policy, i.e. Motor
   Own-damage, Fire & Theft.
•   The Add-on will be effective for the same period as the
    Motor Own Damage under section 1 of the policy unless
   and until stated other-wise, however coverage in the policy
    would be valid only when purchased Kilometers remains
     partially or fully un-used at the time of occurrence of loss.
Terms of PAYU coverage:
a)  This Add-on is offered on Kilometer based usage, i.e. the
   premium will be charged based on opted plans of different
    Kilometer ranges.
b)  Insured can opt for any offered Kilometer range as per
     his/her requirement. If the initially purchased kilometers
    are exhausted, Insured may top-up the add-on (from the
    available top-up options) at any time during the policy
     period, subject to additional payment of premium thereto.
c)  Any claim reported under Section 1 of the policy after
    exhaustion of purchased Kilometers (initial or top-up) will
    not be covered. However, keeping practical scenarios in
    view, 100 (one hundred) grace Kilometers would be offered
     after exhaustion of purchased kilometers (only for accident
    cases & not for theft cases).
       If the vehicle  is not driven more than 100 Kms after
    exhaustion of the purchased plan the claim made would
      still be honored subject to payment of premium for top-up
     after the loss and within the currency of the policy.
d)  Kilometers remaining unused after expiry of the term of the
    base policy would carry forward to the renewed policy
    subject to the following:
    •  Maximum number of Kilometers that can be carried
        forward will be 1000 if renewed within the due date, or
        within 30 days from expiry of the policy.
    •   Beyond 30 days from due date of renewal, carry
        forward of un-used kilometers will not be allowed.
e)  Insured should ensure that the number of Kilometers driven
    at any point during the policy tenure or at the point of claim
     is easily ascertainable through use of technology or
    through readings in vehicles odometer or through any
    other available means.
   Any act of tempering with such devices or readings, or any
    act which renders such devices non-functional would
   make the policy/Add-ons/covers in-effective and may lead
    to repudiation of claims made.
       If the device is rendered non-functional or is malfunctioning
      is observed due to any defect in the device (caused by wear
   & tear or manufacturing defect), the Insured should bring
    the same to the notice of Insurer immediately.
f)   Insured may opt for other available add-ons in the base
    product of Private Car and Two Wheeler.
g)  NCB as per applicable rate would be provided to the
    insured for the initial Km based purchase of package and
    also on top-up Kms repurchased there-after during the
   same policy period irrespective of claim in the running
     policy.
h)   In case of transfer of ownership endorsement, the New
   Owner would be eligible for the un-used number of Kms left
     in the purchased plan along with the TP/PA part of the
    policy if applicable. Additional premium towards NCB and
    other charges may be applicable as per the provisions of
    Indian Motor Tariff applicable to the base product.
i)  The Company may cancel the policy as prescribed in the
   base policy by sending seven days' notice by recorded
    delivery to the insured at insured's last known address and
     in such event will return to the insured the premium for un-
   used Kms of last purchased plan, whether initial and/or
    top-up (and not for any accumulated Kms carried forward
    from previous year's policy). The policy may also be
    cancelled at any time by the insured on seven days' notice
   by recorded delivery and provided no claim has arisen
    during the currency of the policy, the insured shall be
    entitled to a return of premium for the un-used Kms
    purchased. Refund of premium would be done only for the
    un-used Kms, whether initial and/or top-up (and not for any
    accumulated Kms carried forward from previous year's
     policy).
   However no refund would be provided if cancellation is
     initiated by Insured in last 30 days of the policy period. In
    scenarios where cancellation of the policy is necessitated
   by virtue of Total Loss/Cash Loss/ Total theft or
    Constructive total loss/Cash Loss no refund would be made
    towards the Own-Damage premium.
    Return of the premium by the company will be subject to
    retention of the minimum premium of ` 100/- (or `25/-in
    respect of vehicles speciﬁcally designed/ modiﬁed for use by
     blind/ handicapped/ mentally challenged persons) per year.
   Where the ownership of the vehicle is transferred, the policy
    stands cancelled automatically.
     All other provisions and regulations related to Cancellation
   would be same as applicable to the base product.
2)  Pay How You Use plan: This plan would convert the base
    motor product into an Asset cum “sage and/or Driving-
    Behaviour” based product.
    •  Being a usage based Add-on, the insurance premium
       would be effected based on how an insured vehicle is
       Used and/or Driven.
     Historical data of relevant customer segment may also be
    used to establish the inherent behavior of the speciﬁc
    segment of customer to extend upfront pricing variability.

                  Discounts                Loadings
     Driving  10   9   8   7   6   5   4   3   2   1   0
     Score   Up  Up  Up  Up  Up  Up  Up  Up  Up  Up  Up
    Band     to    to   to    to   to    to   to   to   to   to    to
         20% 18% 16% 14% 12%   -  12% 14% 16% 18% 20%
•   The Driving  / Usage behavior would be derived basis
     available parameters and would be classiﬁed into Score-
    ranges or Bands. Discounts and loadings would be
    provided to the insured based on the Score Bands achieved
    over a period of time.
    Example (for representative purpose):
     Best Driving score Band 10
     Least Driving score Band 0
    Above mentioned percentages may be offered as
     discounts and loading basis the Driving-behavior score
     bands. Applicable score band & scoring pattern would be
    updated at the point of policy purchase.
•   The Add-on will be effective for the same period as the
    Motor Own Damage under section 1 of the policy unless
    and until stated other-wise
Terms of PHYU coverage:
a)   Insured should ensure that the number of Kilometers
     driven and other parameters related to driving behavior, at
    any point during the policy tenure or at the point of claim is
      easily ascertainable whether through use of technology or
     through readings in vehicle's devices (like Odometer) or
     through any other available means.
    Any act of tempering with such devices or readings, or any
     act which renders such devices/facilities /technologies
     non-functional would make the policy/Add-ons/covers in-
      effective and may lead to repudiation of claims made.
       If the device  is rendered non-functional or  is
     malfunctioning is observed due to any defect in the device
     (caused by wear & tear or manufacturing defect), the
     Insured should bring the same to the notice of Insurer
     immediately.
b)   Insured may also opt for other available add-ons in the
    base product of Private Car and Two Wheeler.
Note:
Insured may opt for any one or both the PAYU & PHYU plans
within the Telematics Add-on.
In case Insured opts for both the plans the provisions related to
product feature, Endorsement & Cancellations would be as
mentioned under “Terms of PAYU coverage”. In addition,
Insured's driving behavior would also be factored-in for deriving
the premium.
15.  Battery Protect Cover
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0005V01202223
Battery Protect Cover (for Electric/Hybrid vehicle (Petrol + Electric
In consideration of payment of an additional premium of
`..................by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared
that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
Policy, the Company hereby undertakes to indemnify the
Insured for expenses incurred in repair or replacement due to
consequential damages arising out of water ingression/ Short
circuit causing loss or damage to battery, drive Motor/electric
Motor and HEV (Hybrid electric vehicle system, whether it forms
part of or taken & ﬁtted separately to the insured vehicle.
Provided always that:
I.    For the purpose of this add-on, 'Consequential Damage'
     would mean “the damage more speciﬁcally expressed
     herein above caused to an insured vehicle not arising
      directly from an insured peril but as a direct consequence
      to the same”.
2.    Battery would mean an electric-vehicle battery (EVB)
      (also known as a traction battery) is a battery used to
    power the electric motors of a battery electric vehicle
     (BEV) or hybrid electric vehicle (HEV). These batteries are
     usually rechargeable (secondary) batteries, and are
      typically lithium-ion batteries. These batteries are
      speciﬁcally designed for a high ampere-hour (or kilowatt-
     hour) capacity. Electric-vehicle batteries differ from
      starting, lighting, and ignition (SLI) batteries as they are
     designed to give power over sustained periods of time and
     are deep-cycle batteries.
3    Drive Motor/electric Motor is a motor which is ﬁtted on the
     axles which converts electric energy into mechanical
     energy.
4.  HEV (Hybrid electric vehicle) system - The HEV system
     contains of Electric motor, DC/DC step down converter,
     electric generator & power electronics controller
5.   In case of an accident, payment under this add-on would
    be made only when there is evidence of under carriage
    damage to Battery and resulting into damage to covered
     parts as mentioned above.
6.   In case of short circuit while mounting, dismounting or
     vehicle in charging port resulting into damage/failure to
    covered parts as mentioned above.
7   The Company would not be liable
      a.  Any claim where the subject matter of claims is
        covered under any other type of insurance policy with
       any other insurer or manufacturer's warranty
         including recall campaign or under any other such
        packages at the same time.
      b.  Any claim which is intimated to the Company after 30
        days of the happening of loss or damage.
      c.  Any claim where the repair has been carried out
        without prior approval from the Company
     d.  Any claims related to loss or damage due to wear
      e.  Any claim where Charging is not done as per the
         guidelines of OEM (original equipment manufacturer)
        f.  Any claim where battery is already dead due untimely
        charging or any other purpose.
     g.  Maximum one claim will be payable under this Add on
         cover per policy tenure.
      h.  Vehicle stopped due to over discharge of batteries and
            is not plugged for charge within 24 hrs from the time of
        stoppage.
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and limitations of the
Policy.
16. Smart Saver:
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0048V01202223
This cover can be availed only as an Add-on cover subject to
payment of additional premium mentioned in the policy
schedule, if any one of the base covers (Own Damage)   are
opted under  the  policy. If the Policyholder intimates an Own
Damage claim of the insured vehicle ﬁrst to IC IC ILombard
General Insurance Company Ltd (“ICICILombard”) and the
insured vehicle is taken for repairs to an ICICILombard Smart
Care Garage (Select Network Garage)*, any voluntary
deductible opted by the policyholder as speciﬁed in the Policy
Schedule will be waived off subject to a maximum amount of
` 5000/- (Rupees Five Thousand Only) per claim. ICICILombard
will also provide assurance on the quality of workmanship for a
period of 6 months or 6000 kms post repair whichever is earlier
for the repairs carried out at the Select Network Garage. In case
of any delay in repair of the insured vehicle at the Select
Network Garage within the assured time, ICICI Lombard will
provide alternate travel arrangement as per terms mentioned in
the policy schedule. In the unlikely event of ICICILombard being
unable to provide alternate travel arrangement, we may
request the Insured to arrange for travel on his own and submit
the bill for reimbursement as per policy terms & condition.
Special Conditions:
This Add-on is subject to the following special conditions:
a)  The claim being admissible under Section  I of the
     underlying Policy in respect of the Insured Vehicle.
b)  The alternate travel arrangement shall be provided for a
    maximum of 5 days only in case of a delay beyond the
     assured time for the Own Damage claim
c)   The assured time will be calculated from the next day of
     receipt of the insured vehicle at the Select Network
     Garage.
d)  The amount of alternate travel arrangement provided per
    day cannot be carried forward to the subsequent day or
    any such day in the future. Any un-availed costs towards
     alternate travel arrangement shall automatically expire &
    cannot be redeemed later.
e)  The service Assurance will not be available in case of any
     force majeure, natural event or manmade disturbance
    which impedes its ability to fulﬁll the Assurance or where
     the delay in claim processing or repair/servicing or delivery
     of vehicle is caused by the insured, due to any reason,
     including but not limited to, additional service/repair
     request being made by the insured.
Exclusions
        i)  This Add-on will not be applicable if the insured gets
        the vehicle repaired at a garage other than the Select
       Network Garage.
         ii)  This Add-on shall not be applicable in case of theft,
        whether Total or Partial and/or Total Loss/Cash Loss/
         Constructive Total Loss of the insured vehicle under
        the Policy.
         iii) This Add-on is subject to the other terms, conditions,
         limitations and exclusions of the underlying Policy.
17. Smart Saver Plus
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0002V01202425
This cover can be availed only as an Add-on cover subject to
payment of additional premium mentioned in the policy schedule.
Provided always that,
1)   Policyholder intimates an Own Damage claim of the
    insured vehicle ﬁrst to ICICI Lombard General Insurance
   Company Ltd (“ICICI Lombard”) where claim liability is not
    exceeding `50,000/-and the insured vehicle is taken for
     repairs to an ICICI Lombard Smart Care Garage (Selected
    Preferred Partner Garage) *.
    The same will be repaired in Assured Turn-Around-Time
    (TAT) of 5 days, the assured time will be calculated from the
    next day of receipt of the insured vehicle at the Selected
    Preferred Partner Garage.
2)   In case of any delay in repair of the insured vehicle at the
    Selected Preferred Partner Garage within the assured time,
     ICICI Lombard will provide alternate travel arrangement as
    per terms mentioned in the policy schedule.
     In the unlikely event of ICICI Lombard being unable to
    provide alternate travel arrangement, we may request the
    Insured to arrange for travel on their own and submit the
      bill for reimbursement as per policy terms & condition.
    The alternate travel arrangement shall be provided for a
   maximum of 5 days only in case of a delay beyond the
    assured time for the Own Damage claim.
3)  The Maximum cost borne by the company towards such
     alternate travel arrangement or Re-imbursement to the
    insured (as stated above) may depend on various factors
    and would be limited to the per-day maximum amount
    mentioned on the policy schedule. The Maximum amount in
    any case would be limited to ` 1000/- per-day.
4)  The amount of alternate travel arrangement provided per
    day cannot be carried forward to the subsequent day or
    any such day in the future.
    Any un-availed costs towards alternate travel arrangement
     shall automatically expire & cannot be redeemed later.
     ICICI Lombard will also provide assurance on the quality of
    workmanship for a period of 24 months or 10000 kms post
     repair whichever is earlier for the repairs carried out at the
    Selected Preferred Partner Garage.  If any defects arise
    owing to the quality of workmanship, the same would be
     repaired/ replaced at no extra cost to the policyholder.
    However, any kind of consequential losses are not covered
    under this Add-on.
Special Conditions:
This Add-on is subject to the following conditions:
a)  The claim being admissible under Section  I of the
     underlying Policy in respect of the Insured Vehicle.
b)  The service Assurance will not be available in case of any
     force majeure, natural event or manmade disturbance
    which impedes its ability to fulﬁll the Assurance or where
     the delay in claim processing or repair/servicing or delivery
     of vehicle is caused by the insured, due to any reason,
     including but not limited to, additional service/repair
     request being made by the insured.
c)   Cancellation: The Add on cover will run concurrently with
     the Own Damage section of the Policy. Refund in case of
    such cancellation shall follow the same procedure as the
    base policy.
Exclusions:
i)    This Add-on will not be applicable if the insured gets the
     vehicle repaired at a garage other than the Selected
    Preferred Partner Garage
ii)   Cover under this add-on shall not be available for Theft
    and burglary claims
iii)   For any loss or damage resulting into total loss of the
     vehicle
iv)  Cover under this add-on shall not be available for damage
    caused by deterioration, wear and tear, electrical
    breakdown or mechanical failure or any accidents.
v)   For loss or damage arising out of any manufacturing
    defect or design including manufacturer's recall.
vi)  Any loss or damage covered under the manufacturer's
    warranty (Losses recoverable under any other insurance or
    any scheme by the Manufacturer or Dealer or any other
    source may not be covered under this add-on)
vii)  Fraudulent act committed by insured or any person
    entrusted possession of the vehicle by insured
This Add-on  is subject to the other terms, conditions,
limitations and exclusions of the underlying Policy.
*Selected Preferred Partner Garage is a subset of our
Preferred Partner garages at select locations. The list of
selected preferred partner garage is subject to change from
time to time and updated list shall be made available to the
policyholders in our website-https://www.icicilombard.com/
or by calling the Toll-free number 18002666.
18.  IL Smart Assist
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0097V02202526
In consideration of payment of an additional premium of
`……......  by the Insured, it is hereby agreed and declared
that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
the Policy and subject to Policy terms and conditions, the
Company hereby undertakes to provide the Insured, upon
their request, the following assistance services/covers
arising out of an accident, breakdown, measures initiated
for mitigation of breakdown/ accident or distress of the
insured during travel in insured vehicle whilst the normal
and intended use of the insured vehicle during the Policy
Period as mentioned in Policy Schedule, in any area where
the Company has its presence through its network garages
or through the network of the service provider: Customer
can choose one or more than one listed service available for
the add-on.
1.   Legal Assistance: Subject to the terms, conditions,
     exclusions, limitations of this Policy, and with prior
     consent of the Company, legal expenses incurred by
     the Insured Person, for services rendered by the Legal
      Practitioner in connection with bail application of
     insured and custody of insured vehicle involved in an
     accident will be covered. The liability of the Company
      will be limited up to sum insured of Legal Assistance
    Add-on as mentioned in policy schedule.
     Legal Expenses shall not cover:
      a.  Bail bond amount paid by the Insured.
       b.  Costs arising from disputes between the Insured
        Person and the Legal Practitioner regarding the
         terms or fees of their engagement.
       c.  Any ﬁnes, penalties, or damages awarded against
         the Insured Person in connection with the
          accident.
      d.  Legal costs related to any criminal prosecution
        where the Insured Person is found guilty.
       e.  Expenses for legal services that are unrelated to
         the accident or the release of the vehicle.
          f.  Any legal costs incurred before the occurrence of
         the accident or without Company prior written
         consent.
      g.  Costs of legal representation in relation to claims
      made by or against third parties unless
          speciﬁcally covered under the policy.
Exclusions:
1.   For any legal action that  is false, fraudulent,
     exaggerated, or based on misrepresentations made
    by the Insured Person.
2.   Where at the time of the insured incident, the Insured
     Person:
     •  Was disqualiﬁed from driving;
     •   Did not hold a valid driving license to operate the
         insured vehicle;
     •   Failed to comply with laws governing the
        ownership or use of the vehicle.
3.   For deliberate, wilful, or intentional non-compliance
     with any statutory provisions or judicial pronouncements.
4.    In respect of a claim made or considered against the
    Company or third-party claim under the same policy.
5.      If the Insured Person is driving the insured vehicle
    under the inﬂuence of alcohol, drugs, or any other
     intoxicating substances, the claim shall not be
     admissible. Additionally, no expenses will be covered
      for any other person driving the insured vehicle under
    such inﬂuence, nor will expenses related to the release
     of the vehicle in such circumstances be covered.
6.   For any claims arising from, based upon, or
     attributable to a wrongful act or circumstance known
     to the Insured Person, or that the Insured Person
     reasonably should have known, prior to the inception
     date of this policy.
Conditions:
1.   The Coverage shall not apply to vehicles used for
     racing, rallying, motorsports, or any similar activities,
     nor to instances where the vehicle  is operated in
     violation of applicable laws in force at the time of use.
2.   The Coverage shall not be available for Acts of God
    events, including natural disasters or other
     unforeseeable events beyond human control.
3.   The Coverage will terminate immediately, and the
     Insured Person shall be required to refund all legal
    expenses paid under the policy  if the accident is
     conclusively proven to have been caused deliberately
    by such Insured Person
2.   Emergency Medical Expenses (EME)
    The Company will be liable for the below mentioned
    Emergency medical expenses incurred for the
     treatment of bodily injury/injuries sustained by insured
     and/or any occupant of the vehicle in direct relation
     with insured vehicle
    The injury/injuries sustained in an accident to be whilst
    mounting and dismounting from or driving or travelling
      in the insured vehicle caused by violent, accidental
     external and visible means requiring necessary
     medical treatment in any Hospital or any clinic or
     nursing home.
      1.  Accidental Hospitalisation – The Company shall
        reimburse the accidental medical expenses
        incurred by the insured and/or any other
         occupant(s) travelling in the insured vehicle (as
         per the registered seating capacity) towards the
         treatment of bodily injury sustained in an accident
    involving the insured vehicle.
   The aggregate liability of the Company under the
    said cover for all the occupants will be limited up to
    the Sum Insured mentioned against the said cover
     in the Policy Schedule.
2.  Ambulance Cover – The Company shall:
    a.  Arrange ground medical transportation by an
      ambulance service provider to transport the
       Insured Person and/or any other occupant(s)
         travelling in the insured vehicle from the site of
       accident to the nearest Hospital or any clinic
       or nursing home for necessary medical
       treatment as available in that particular
        city/location. This  is merely a telephonic
      assistance service and  is subject to
        availability of the service provider in the
        location of the accident.
       There are no restrictions on the number of
       times the telephonic ambulance assistance
       can be availed.
     b.  And also reimburse the expenses incurred by
       the insured and/or any occupant(s) for hiring
      an ambulance for such transportation. The
       aggregate liability of the Company towards
       the cost of hiring an ambulance for all the
        injured occupants will be limited up to the Sum
       Insured mentioned against the said cover in
       the Policy Schedule.
3.  Hospital Daily Cash –  If insured and/or any
    occupant(s) travelling in the insured vehicle,
    suffers an Injury due to an Accident that occurs
    during the Policy Period and which solely and
    directly requires the injured occupant(s) travelling
     in the insured vehicle to be Hospitalized, then The
   Company will pay the daily amount speciﬁed in
    the Policy Schedule against this cover for each
    continuous and completed day of Hospitalization
    of the injured person(s).
   The Company shall not be liable to pay the daily
   amount for more than the maximum number of
   days as speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule, during
    the Policy Period. Further the number of injured to
   whom the claim will be paid under the cover will
   be limited to the number as opted by the insured
   and duly mentioned under the policy Schedule.
   The Company’s liability to make any payment
   under this cover shall be beyond per event policy
   excess, stated in the Policy Schedule, as
    applicable.
4.  Tele Consultation -  If insured and/or any
    occupant(s) travelling in the insured vehicle,
    requires any medical emergency assistance that
    occurs during the Policy Period, they can avail
    Telephonic/Virtual Consultation through mobile
    application speciﬁed in the Policy Certiﬁcate.
    Telephonic/Virtual Consultation service can be
     availed as many times as mentioned in policy
     schedule.
       (i)    It is agreed and understood that the Insured
        Person/occupant(s) is/are free to choose
        whether or not to obtain the expert opinion,
       and if obtained then whether or not to act on
               it;
       (ii)  Under this Beneﬁt, We are only providing the
         Insured Person/occupant(s) with access to
         consultations or opinion and we shall not be
       deemed to substitute the Insured
    Person’s/occupant(s) visit or consultation to an
    independent Medical Practitioner.
Provided always that
1.  Such claims are admitted by the Company under
    Section  I – “Loss or Damage to the Vehicles
    Insured” of the Policy, except for Tele Consultation
     service.
2.  Claim under this add-on  is intimated to the
   Company within 5 days of occurrence of incident,
    however, this condition is not applicable when
    there is a delay in intimation due to unavoidable
    circumstances.
3.  Accident has occurred in direct connection with
    insured vehicle whilst driving the vehicle including
    mounting into/ dismounting from or traveling in
    the insured vehicle.
4.  The limit on the number of claims that can be
   made and the aggregate liability to be paid during
    the policy period will be restricted to the sum
    insured mentioned against each of the coverage’s
     separately.
5.  The beneﬁt under this section is NOT payable in
    case the number of persons/ passengers traveling
     in the insured vehicle is more than the number
    speciﬁed in the registration certiﬁcate valid at the
    time of occurrence of such accident.
6.  Submission of original Bills  / Reports  /
     Prescriptions/Indoor case papers and Hospital
    discharge summary shall be required for
    reimbursement of all such claims.
Deﬁnition for the purpose of this service:
Hospital/Nursing Home/Clinic means any institution
established for inpatient care and day care treatment
of illness and  / or injuries and which has been
registered as a hospital/nursing home/clinic with the
local authorities under the Clinical Establishments
(Registration and Regulations) Act 2010 or under
enactments speciﬁed under the Schedule of Section
56(1) of the said Act.
Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment,
tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part of a stay in
hospital which:
      -    Is required for the medical management of the
          injury suffered by the insured or any other
        occupant travelling in the insured vehicle;
      -   Must not exceed the level of care necessary to
         provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical
         care in scope, duration, or intensity;
      -  Must have been prescribed by a medical
          practitioner;
      -  Must conform to the professional standards
         widely accepted in international medical practice
          or by the medical community in India.
      “Pre-existing disease (PED)” means any condition,
      ailment, injury or disease:
      a)  that is/are diagnosed by a physician not more than
       36 months prior to the date of commencement of
         the policy issued by the insurer; or
      b)  for which medical advice or treatment was
       recommended by, or received from, a physician,
         not more than 36 months prior to the date of
       commencement of the policy. “Telephonic/Virtual
         Consultation” shall mean any consultations
         provided by Medical Practitioners/Healthcare
        Professionals through a virtual mode of
         communication, such as via audio, video, online
          portal, chat or mobile application for routine
         health query or second opinion.
     Speciﬁc Exclusions:
      a.  Any expenses related to a sickness, disease or
         medical disorder not directly consequential to
          accident.
      b.  Any expenses related to pre-existing diseases or
         medical disorders, except for Tele consultation
          service
       c.  Any physiotherapy treatment.
      d.  Any expense not supported by an original and
          valid bill / receipt and related prescription of the
         attending Medical Practitioner / Hospital / Nursing
       Home.
       e.  Any expenses for treatment commenced after 3
        days from the date of accident.
         f.  Not more than sum-insured as mentioned in the
         schedule during per policy tenure.
      g.  Any expense arising or resulting from or traceable
          to intentional self injury, suicide or attempted
          suicide physical defect or inﬁrmity.
      h.  Any expense arising or resulting from or traceable
          to an accident happening due to the inﬂuence of
          intoxicating liquor or drugs.
     Subject otherwise to the terms exceptions condition &
     limitations of the policy.
3.   Travel Inconvenience: In the event of the Insured
     vehicle getting immobilized due to an accident or
    breakdown caused by or arising out of the use of the
     insured vehicle while travelling to Airport/Railway
      station, company will compensate insured’s expenses
    up to the amount speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule
    towards Air /Train ticket and Hotel expenses which is
    unused or forfeited within 24 hours of travel ticket
     cancellation.
4.   Convenience Service: Company will provide range of
    beneﬁts that will enhance the protection of insured
     vehicle such as vehicle preventive maintenance
     service, pickup & drop for vehicle maintenance
     servicing and vehicle accident or breakdown related
      repair, wheel alignment, and such other allied services
     designed to mitigate and prevent risk. Such services
    may be provided by the Company through its network
    garages or service providers and may be offered as a
    bundled service to the Insured.
     Service Limitations as stated below:
     Service can be availed maximum twice during the
     policy tenure
5.   Wallet Assistance: In event of loss of wallet of insured
     during usage of insured vehicle  / travelling in the
     insured vehicle during an accident or breakdown
    caused by or arising out of the use of the insured
     vehicle, insurance company will assist in below
     services:
      a)  Immediate cash assistance up to ` 5000 to meet
         your expenses
      b)  Cashless settlement of your hotel bills and
         assistance in booking return tickets
      c)  Assistance in Blocking of debit/credit cards
      d)  Assistance in Police FIR for lost wallet/id
          cards/debit cards/credit cards
     Provided always that-
      a)  There is no involvement of fraud practices
      b)  Claim  is being availed once during the policy
         tenure
      c)  Required cash or cashless settlement of hotel bills
           will be paid back/ transferred by the Insured to the
       Company or Company representative’s account,
          within the stipulated time period as communicated
          to the Insured during the incident or maximum
         within 2 days of the incident.
6.   Loss of DL/RC: In case where the insured or insured’s
     driver suffers a loss of valid original Driving License
     and/or the valid original Registration Certiﬁcate during
     travel in insured vehicle due to an accident or
    breakdown caused by or arising out of the use of the
    Insured Vehicle, Company would provide re-
    imbursement up to ` 5,000 or actual expenses incurred
    whichever is less to obtain duplicate license and/or
     Registration Certiﬁcate.
     Provided always that:
      a)  First Information report ﬁled with Police authority
          (within 7 days of documents loss) stating loss of
         Driver’s License and/or Original Vehicle
         Registration Certiﬁcate must be submitted to
        company.
      b)  The claim is payable only once during the Policy
          Period.
      c)  In case of driver’s driving license loss, Insured
        must prove driver’s employment for more than 30
        days during the Policy Period with submission of
        Employment records/ contracts, Salary certiﬁcate.
      d)  The Insured should take all reasonable steps to
         safeguard Vehicle Registration Copy and Driving
         License from loss.
7.   Arrangement of PUC document: In case where
     insured has lost PUC certiﬁcate during travel / usage of
    insured vehicle, the Company would facilitate
    arrangement for providing PUC Certiﬁcate. However,
    company would intimate the Insured of all charges
    payable to the vendor which shall be borne by the
     Insured directly.
8.   Sports Equipment Cover: In case the Insured Vehicle
     contains Sports equipment as speciﬁed below and the
    same is damaged due to an accident caused by or
     arising out of the use of the insured vehicle, the
    Company would cover the accidental damage by
     offering repair or replacement or reimbursement of
    damaged equipment’s.
     Provided always that:
     •   All categories of Sports equipments as mentioned
        below viz, Adventure sports, Endurance sports
       and Hobby sports stands covered.
          a)  Adventure sports – Mountain/Water/Racing
             sports equipments
          b)  Endurance sports - Trekking/Cycling/Racing
            shoes/Speed skating equipments
           c)  Hobby sports – Football/Baseball/Volleyball
            equipments
     •  Any accidental damage to sports equipments as a
          result of accident of Covered vehicle;
     •   This beneﬁt is subject to a maximum of ₹ 5000
         (ﬁve thousand);
     •   This beneﬁt is offered only once during the Policy
         Period
     •   Intimation of claim has to be within 24 hours from
         the date & time of occurrence of accident.
     •  Any contractual liability  is excluded from the
        scope of cover
9.   Location and delivery of spare parts: In the event of
     accident or breakdown of the vehicle, caused by or
     arising out of the use of the insured vehicle, the
    Company will assist in locating and delivering the
     spare parts when it is not possible for the local repairer
     to obtain them in the city of repair. Provided that the
     parts are available within Geographical limits. All such
     charges for purchase of spare parts would be borne by
     the Insured, subject to policy terms and conditions.
10.  Pet cover: In case the Insured Vehicle is occupied by
     Pet, the Company will assist in providing relevant Pet
     Health Assistance for any injury or medical expenses
    caused by or arising due to an accident or breakdown
     or arising in direct relation with insured vehicle
     Subject to terms as below:
     •  The Company will assist in arranging for
         consultation during the road trip by a Veterinary
         Doctor.
     •   This beneﬁt is subject to a maximum of ₹5000
         (ﬁve thousand)
     •  Any contractual liability  is excluded from the
        scope of cover.
11.  Loss of Personal Belongings:
     Plan A
    The Company hereby undertakes to indemnify the
     Insured, upto an amount as stated in the Schedule, for
     the loss of his personal belongings on account of
    breakdown /damage to or theft from the Insured
      vehicle. Provided always that:
      1. A deductible of ` 500 would be applicable for each
         claim under this add -on
      2. A First Investigation Report (FIR) is registered with
         the Police for such loss
      3.  The Company would not be liable for:
           a.  Any loss in open top or convertible cars unless
             the belongings are kept in the locked boot
           b.  Any loss of money, securities, cheques, bank
                drafts, credit or debit cards, jewellery, gems,
              stones, contact lens, glasses, travel tickets,
           watches, laptops, mobiles, valuables,
             manuscripts, paintings, work of art.
            c.  Any loss of the personal belongings unless
             the Insured vehicle is locked and all doors &
          windows are properly fastened while
             unattended.
           d.  Any loss of or damage to belongings carried
                in connection with any trade or business
           e.  Any theft from vehicles parked in no-parking
           zone and from unattended vehicle after
             accident or breakdown
                f.   Any claim intimated to the Company after 30
            days of such loss.
     Plan B
    The Company hereby undertakes to indemnify the
     Insured, upto an amount as stated in the Schedule, for
     the loss of his personal belongings, including mobile
    phones and/or laptops, on account of breakdown/
    damage to or theft from the Insured Vehicle. Provided
    always that:
      4. A deductible of `500 would be applicable for each
         claim under this addon, except when the claim is
        being made only for mobile phones and/or laptops.
      5. A First Investigation Report (FIR) is registered with
         the Police for such loss
      6.  The Company would not be liable for:
           a.  Any loss in open top or convertible cars unless
             the belongings are kept in the locked boot
           b.  Any loss of money, securities, cheques, bank
               drafts, credit or debit cards, jewellery, gems,
              stones, contact lens, glasses, travel tickets,
             watches, valuables, manuscripts, paintings,
           work of art.
            c.  Any loss of the personal belongings unless
             the Insured vehicle is locked and all doors &
          windows are properly fastened while
             unattended.
           d.  Any loss of or damage to belongings carried
                in connection with any trade or business
           e.  Any theft from vehicles parked in no-parking
           zone and from unattended vehicle after
             accident or breakdown
                f.  Any claim for a laptop/mobile phone not
             declared at the time of Policy issuance.
           g.  Any claim intimated to the Company after 30
            days of such loss. Any amount more than the
            market value of the mobile phones or laptops
            as stated at the time of Policy issuance,
            deducted appropriately for depreciation as
             per the Section 32 of Income Tax Act.
12.  Battery Charging Support for EVs- In the event of the
    Insured vehicle being an Electronic Vehicle  is
     immobilized due to an accident or breakdown caused
    by or arising out of the use of the insured vehicle, the
    Company will assist the insured in having reliable
    access to charging infrastructure and assistance
     through app based/tele-calling/physical support in
    form of below services:
      a)  Self-troubleshoot through tele calling or intelligent
         Chabot/mobile based support
      b)  Video chat instantly with trained Electric Vehicle
          specialists to get immediate resolution
      c)  Access to mobile charging services and there are
        no nearby charging stations.
      d)  Support for ﬁnding nearby public charging
          stations
13.  Vehicle Break-down cover: In an event of an Insured
     vehicle being immobilized or malfunctioning due to
    any technical snag or defect developed in the parts, the
    company will provide Break down repair cover subject
     to the Sum insured separately mentioned in the
     schedule for this purpose.
     Conditions:
      1.  The defects should have developed due to normal
        and intended use of the vehicle.
      2.  Any defect attributable to manufacturing defect
        and / or part of any recall program will not be
         covered.
      3.  The vehicle should have undergone regular and
          timely servicing / maintenance as recommended
        by the Manufacturer.
      4.  The repair should be pre-approved by the
       Company or its representative.
14.  Towing on breakdown / accident: In the event of the
     Insured vehicle being immobilized or rendered unﬁt for
     the purpose of driving on the road, the Company would
     provide appropriate towing services to the nearest
    garage (within a radius of _____ kms from the location
     of the breakdown or accident or as speciﬁed in the
     schedule), provided always that any charges for a
     distance beyond the one mentioned herein shall be
    borne by the Insured.
15.  Breakdown support over phone: In the event of minor
    mechanical errors/faults/non-functioning of the
     Insured vehicle or any part thereof, the Company
    would provide the Insured with telephonic assistance
     to come up with solutions for such minor mechanical
     errors/faults/non- functioning of the Insured vehicle.
16.  Arrangement/Supply of fuel: In the event of the
     Insured vehicle being immobilized due to emptying of
      fuel tank, the Company would arrange for supply of up
     to ﬁve liters of fuel, at the location of the breakdown or
     accident. Provided always that all labour costs and
    conveyance costs would be borne by the Company
    and all expenses on fuel would be borne by the Insured.
17.  Emptying of fuel tank: In the event of the fuel tank of
     the Insured vehicle being ﬁlled with a wrong type of
      fuel, the Company would arrange for emptying of fuel
     tank with the help of appropriate technicians and if
     required, arrange for towing the Insured vehicle to
     nearest garage for the purpose of emptying the fuel
     tank, provided always that all charges towards the
    towing of the vehicle would be borne by the Insured.
18.  Arrangement of keys: In the event of the Insured
     losing the keys of the Insured vehicle, the Company
    would arrange for pickup and delivery of the spare
     keys of the Insured vehicle to the place where the
     Insured vehicle is located. Alternatively, the Company
    would provide the service of unlocking the Insured
     vehicle with the help of vehicle technicians at the
     location of the Insured vehicle. Provided always that all
     labour and conveyance costs would be borne by the
    Company and the Insured would be required to submit
    an identity proof to prove his ownership of the Insured
      vehicle, before availing such service. Provided always
     that this service would be provided only within a range
     of 100 kms from the location where the loss has
     occurred.
19.  Battery jump start: In the event of the Insured vehicle
     being immobilized due to a rundown battery, due to
     accident or breakdown the Company would arrange
      for a vehicle technician to jump start the Insured
     vehicle with appropriate means. Provided always that
    any cost of charging/replacement of battery would be
    borne by the Insured and all labour and conveyance
     costs, towards battery jump start assistance, would be
    borne by the Company
20.  Message Relay: In the event of the Insured vehicle
     getting immobilized as a result of an accident or
    breakdown, the Company would arrange to send
     urgent message to the speciﬁed persons, as requested
    by the Insured, through available means of
     communication.
21.  Flat Tyre: In the event of the Insured vehicle being
     immobilized due to a ﬂat tyre the Company would
     assist the Insured by:
      a)  Organizing for a vehicle technician to replace the
         ﬂat tyre with the spare stepney tyre of the vehicle
         at the location of breakdown or in the event of
         repairs not being possible at the place of
        breakdown or accident.
      b)  By arranging to take the ﬂat tyre to the nearest
         place of repair and delivering the tyre back to the
         place of breakdown & attaching it to the Insured
           vehicle.
     Provided always that any expenses on material/spare
     parts and any other incidental costs, if required while
     carrying out the repairs, would be borne by the Insured
    and the expenses on labour cost and conveyance cost,
      in relation to point (a) and (b) above, would be borne by
     the Company.
22.  Minor Repairs: In the event of the Insured vehicle being
     immobilized due to a minor mechanical/electrical fault or
     minor accident, the Company would assist the Insured
    by sending a vehicle technician to the location of
    breakdown or accident to carry out the Minor Repairs as
    mentioned in policy schedule. Provided always that
      a)  The expenses on labour cost and conveyance cost
        would be borne by the Company
      b)  Minor Repairs, for the purpose of this add-on,
        would be deﬁned as repairs which can be carried
         out at the location of breakdown/ accident or at
         the network garage of the company/ service
          provider, requiring limited spares.
23.  Arrangement of rental vehicle: In the event of the
     Insured vehicle being immobilized due to a breakdown
     or accident, the Company would facilitate
    arrangement for alternative mode of conveyance, from
     the place of breakdown or accident, to the destination,
    as desired by the Insured at the time of breakdown/
     accident. The Company would intimate the Insured of
       all charges payable to the rental vehicle and all such
     charges would be borne by the Insured.
24.  Arrangement of Accommodation: In the event of the
     Insured vehicle being immobilized due to a breakdown
     or accident the Company would facilitate arrangement
      for hotel accommodation in a place near the place of
     breakdown/accident. The Company would intimate
    the Insured of  all charges payable for such
    accommodation and all such charges would be borne
    by the Insured.
25.  Referring a Legal Advisor: In the event of an accident
     involving the Insured vehicle as a result of which the
     Insured requires the services of a legal advisor, the
    Company would arrange for the Insured the telephonic
     contact details of an appropriate legal advisor
     belonging to an area as requested by the Insured.
     Provided always that:
      a)  The accident has taken place at least 50 kms
       away from the Insured’s place of residence, as per
         the address declared by the Insured at the time of
          Policy issuance
      b)  The Company would intimate the Insured of all
        charges payable for the services of such legal
         advisor and all such charges would be borne by
         the Insured.
26.  Referring a Hospital: In the event of an accident
     involving the Insured vehicle as a result of which the
     Insured and/or any of the travelling passengers
     requires medical care, the Company would arrange for
     the Insured the telephonic contact details of an
     appropriate hospital near the location of accident.
     Provided always that the accident has taken place at
     least 50 kms away from the Insured’s place of
     residence, as per the address declared by the Insured
     at the time of Policy issuance.
27.  Taxi Beneﬁts: In the event of the Insured vehicle being
     immobilized due to an accident or breakdown, the
    Company shall provide free travel of the occupants of
     the Insured vehicles up to 50 kilometers. Provided
    always that:
      a)  The event has occurred 50kms away from the
          Insured’s place of residence as declared by the
         Insured at the time of policy issuance.
      b)  Any charges for a distance beyond the covered
         distance as stated above shall be borne by the
          Insured.
      In the unlikely event of the Company being unable to
     arrange for this service, the Company may request the
     Insured to arrange for the taxi on his own and submit
    the  bill for the pre-authorized amount for
    reimbursement to the Company.
28.  Accommodation Beneﬁts: In the event of the Insured
     vehicle being immobilized due to an accident or
    breakdown, the Company shall provide occupants of
     the Insured vehicle with a hotel accommodation for
    one day, for a maximum of ` 5000. Provided always
      that:
      a)  The breakdown/accident has taken place at least
       100 kms away from the Insured’s place of
         residence, as declared by the Insured at the time of
          Policy issuance.
      b)  The required time of repair of the Insured vehicle
        exceeds 12 hours from the time of the accident/
        breakdown.
      c)  The number of individuals seated in the Insured
          vehicle is not more than the maximum seating
         capacity of the Insured vehicle.
      In the unlikely event of Company being unable to
     arrange for this service, the Company may request the
     Insured to arrange for accommodation on his own and
    submit the  bill for the pre-authorized amount for
    reimbursement to the Company.
29.  Daily Allowance: In an event of accident of the vehicle
    due to insured peril and the vehicle is in garage under
     repair for a minimum number of days, as stated in the
     schedule the Company will provide the following
     covers -
      a)  Pay a daily allowance towards regular conveyance,
        as stated in the schedule, to the Insured for each
       and every completed day for which the Insured’s
          vehicle is under repair in a garage. Such allowance
        would be provided in form of travel voucher or
        reimbursement of self-arranged conveyance or
         courtesy vehicle/ alternate-travel-arrangement.
      b)  Such daily allowance would be upto the maximum
          daily amount mentioned on the schedule and
        would be triggered after the minimum number of
        days as stated on the schedule.
      c)  In case, any additional repairs are carried out for
         non-insured parts or damages due to perils which
         are not covered, the daily allowance would be
          restricted to reasonable number of days as agreed
       along with surveyor & garage/ workshop
        manager.
    The Daily allowance will not be payable if any or all of
     the following condition applies:
      1.   If Vehicle is not repaired at the Network Garage
      2.  Delay due to non-availability of spare parts
         required for repair
      3.  Number of days will be counted from the next
         calendar day after the insured vehicle is delivered
         to the garage for repair and would end on the day
        immediately preceding the date on which the
          vehicle is ready for inspection or delivery.
      4.  In case of reimbursement bill/invoice for travel
       made has to be submitted to the Company.
      5.  The travel vouchers provided would be valid for 24
        hours only.
30.  Quality Assurance: In an event of accident or
    breakdown of the vehicle due to insured peril and the
     vehicle is in garage for repair for a minimum number of
     days, as stated in the schedule the Company will
     provide:
     Assurance on the quality of workmanship for a period of
    24 months or 10000 kms post repair whichever is earlier
      for the repairs carried out at the Network Garage. If any
     defects arise owing to the quality of workmanship, the
    same would be repaired/replaced at no extra cost to the
     policyholder. However, any kind of consequential losses
     are not covered under this Add-on.
31.  Service Assure
      In the event of the Insured vehicle being immobilized
    due to an accident/breakdown, the Company will
     assure that the towing vehicle will reach the accident /
    breakdown spot / location shared by insured, within
     stipulated timelines as mentioned in policy schedule,
      for the purposes of:
a.  Battery Charging Support (Emergency Assistance
    Service No. 12);
b.  Towing on breakdown/accident (Emergency
    Assistance Service No. 14); and
c.   Minor Repairs (Emergency Assistance Service No.
    22)
In case the towing vehicle does not reach the location
within the speciﬁed time, the Company shall endeavor to
send its representative to assist the customer and make
necessary arrangements for towing of the vehicle. The
Insured at its own option may deliver the possession of
the insured vehicle to the Company's representative for
necessary repairs at the network garage as per policy
terms. However, if the towing vehicle/ the representative
of the Company is not able to reach the spot / location
within the speciﬁed timelines, the Company shall extend
the following beneﬁts to the Insured:
(i)  The customer shall be entitled to receive beneﬁt of
    other services, as speciﬁed above, which are not
    part of the policy certiﬁcate;
(ii) Personalized telephonic assistance services by claim
    expert;
(iii) Customer distress assistance/ support;
(iv)  Identiﬁcation of causes of vehicle breakdown &
     vehicle check-up; and
(v)  Replenishment of the First-Aid Kit.
The above mentioned beneﬁts shall be provided to the
customers on receipt of service request through the
Company's designated communication channels like call
centre no. – (1800 2666), mobile app. – (IL TakeCare),
website –(www.icicilombard.com).
The abovementioned service(s) / beneﬁts shall not be
available in the following circumstances:
•  The location of the vehicle  is in a remote,
     inaccessible, or legally restricted area, including but
    not limited to forest zones, off-road terrain, or
     restricted access zones;
•  Where the information furnished by the Insured is
    inaccurate, incomplete, or misleading, including
     incorrect location details, vehicle condition, or
    contact particulars;
•  Where the Insured Vehicle  is rendered non-
    repairable (on-site) and non-towable due to
    mechanical failure, and workshop-level repairs are
    mandatorily required.
•   The vehicle would require necessary towing since
    on-site servicing would violate manufacturer's
    safety or warranty guidelines.
•   The service(s) will not be available in case of any
    force majeure, natural event or manmade
    disturbance.
IL Smart Assist Add-on is subject to the other terms,
conditions, limitations and exclusions of the underlying
policy.
In case of  all of the above mentioned assistance
services/covers, the Company would not be liable for:
1.  Providing the abovementioned services under
    conditions of, war, invasion, rebellion, revolt, civil
    commotion,  civil war, acts of terrorism, nuclear
    ﬁssion, act(s) of government(s)/government
        agencies/judicial/ quasi-judicial authorities.
    2.  Any claims where the Insured vehicle is being used
        for the purpose of racing, rallying, motor- sports, or is
       not being used/driven in accordance with applicable
      laws and regulations.
    3.  Any claim where the Insured vehicle can be safely
        transferred on its own power to the nearest garage/
       workshop.
    4.  Any claims triggered by theft; any kind of
       consequential losses.
    5.  Any loss which is covered under any other insurance
       policy or manufacturer's warranty or recall
      campaign or under any other such packages at the
      same time.
    6.  Any expenses for supply or replacement of parts/
       consumables.
    7.  Any loss/damage caused to the Insured vehicle
     when  it  is being used/driven against the
      recommendations of the owner's/manufacturer's
       manual.
    8.  Any claims where services have been availed of
       without the prior consent of the Company.
    9.  Any claim in case of breach of the following
       conditions of the policy, being one of the following
        conditions, namely:
         a. A condition excluding the use of the vehicle—
                       i.   For hire or reward, where the vehicle is on
              the date of the contract of insurance a
                vehicle not covered by a permit to ply for hire
               or reward; or
                       ii.  For organised racing and speed testing; or
                       iii.  For a purpose not allowed by the permit
              under which the vehicle is used, where the
                vehicle is a transport vehicle; or
                 iv.  Without side-car being attached where the
                vehicle is a two-wheeled vehicle; or
         b. A condition excluding driving by a named
          person or by any person who is not duly licenced
           or by any person who has been disqualiﬁed for
           holding or obtaining a driving licence during the
           period of disqualiﬁcation or driving under the
          inﬂuence of alcohol or drugs.
   10. Any claim in case the policy is void on the ground
       that  it was obtained by nondisclosure of any
        material fact or by representation of any factwhich
      was false in some material particular.
   Note: The facilitated services mentioned above if opted
   and mentioned in policy schedule may be subject to the
   terms and conditions as provided by the service
   providers during the term of the policy.
   The Company shall not be held responsible or liable for
   any act/error/omission or for quality of services provided.
   The services procured by the Insured from service
   providers shall be at their own risk and liability.
19. War Risk cover:
UIN: IRDAN115RP0017V01200102/A0130V01202526
In consideration of the payment of an additional premium by
the Insured as mentioned in policy schedule, it is hereby
agreed and declared that notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in the Policy, the Company hereby
undertakes to indemnify the insured vehicle against any
accidental loss damage and/or liability directly or indirectly
or proximately or remotely occasioned by contributed to by
or traceable to or arising out of or in connection with
•   war,
•   invasion,
•   the act of foreign enemies,
•   hostilities or warlike operations (whether before or after
    declaration of war)
•    civil war
•  mutiny rebellion,
•   Military or usurped power or by any direct or indirect
   consequence of any of the said occurrences.
Provided always that:
•  The claim being admissible under Section  I of the
    underlying Policy in respect of the Insured Vehicle.
•  The liability of the company hereunder shall not exceed
    the Insured’s Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle.
•  The insured shall take reasonable precautions to
    prevent damage and shall comply with all statutory
    obligations;
•  The insured shall abide by all guidelines, advisories,
    precautions, rules & regulations, conditions prescribed
   by the government (central, state or local authority)
    before, during or after the event of war, invasion, military
    action as stated above.
•  The company reserves the right to conduct
    investigations, inspections, or assessments before
    settling claims.
•   This Add-on is subject to the other terms, conditions,
    limitations and exclusions of the underlying policy.
Exclusions:
The company will not be liable:
•   For any damage to the vehicle occurring due to use of
    nuclear weapon (involving any technology or type of
    nuclear weapon) or any liability of whatsoever nature
    directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by or
    arising from ionising radiations or contamination by
    radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear
   waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel, discharge of
    pollutants/ contaminants.
•   For any claims arising from, based upon, or attributable
    to a wrongful act or circumstance known to the Insured
    Person, or that the Insured Person reasonably should
   have known, prior to the inception date of this policy
•  Conﬁscation or Nationalization: Losses due to the
    conﬁscation, nationalization, or requisition of property
   by any government or public authority before, during or
    after the war.
•   Voluntary Participation: Losses occurring to the vehicle
   due to voluntary participation in the war by the insured
    or providing the vehicle voluntarily for participation in
   War.
•   Policy Cancellations & endorsements as applicable
   would be guided as per the base policy terms &
    conditions
Note : If the above add-on is opted, the following exclusion
mentioned in the base policy stands deleted
“Any accidental loss damage and/or liability directly or
indirectly or proximately or remotely occasioned by
contributed to by or traceable to or arising out of or in
connection with war, invasion, the act of foreign enemies,
hostilities or warlike operations (whether before or after
declaration of war) civil war, mutiny rebellion, military or
usurped power or by any direct or indirect consequence of
any of the said occurrences and in the event of any claim
hereunder the insured shall prove that the accidental loss
damage and/or liability arose independently of and was in
no way connected with or occasioned by or contributed to by
or traceable to any of the said occurrences or any
consequences thereof and in default of such proof, the
Company shall not be liable to make any payment in respect
of such a claim”
Chapter 8 - Warranty
Warranted that the insured named herein/owner of the
vehicle holds a valid Pollution Under Control (PUC)
Certiﬁcate and/or valid ﬁtness certiﬁcate, as applicable, on
the date of commencement of the Policy and undertakes to
renew and maintain a valid and effective PUC and/or ﬁtness
Certiﬁcate, as applicable, during the subsistence of the
Policy. Further, the Company reserves the right to take
appropriate action in case of any discrepancy in the PUC or
ﬁtness certiﬁcate.
Chapter 9 - Grievances
For resolution of any query or grievance, Insured may
contact the respective branch ofﬁce of the Company or may
call  toll free no.1800-2666 or may approach us at the
sub section “Grievance Redressal” on our website
www.icicilombard.com (Customer Support section).
However, if the resolution provided by us is not satisfactory
you may approach Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority of India (IRDAI) through the Bima Bharosa
Portal - https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/ or IRDAI
Grievance Call Centre(IGCC)at their  toll free no.
1800 4254 732 / 155255. You may also approach Insurance
Ombudsman, subject to vested jurisdiction, for the redressal
of grievance. Details of Insurance Ombudsman ofﬁces are
available at IRDAI website: https://irdai.gov.in/, or on the
Company's website at www.icicilombard.com or on
https://www.cioins.co.in/Ombudsman
                      CHAPTER 10 - DETAILS OF

 You can also approach the Insurance Ombudsman, depending
 Information about Insurance Ombudsman, their jurisdiction
 Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) at
 https://www.gicouncil.in, the Consumer Education Website of t
 Ofﬁces.
 The details of Insurance Ombudsman are available below


Name of ofﬁce of Insurance               Territorial Area
Ombudsman                            of Jurisdiction
AHMEDABAD                                 Gujarat, Dadra
Insurance Ombudsman                 & Nagar Haveli,
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman        Daman and Diu
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th ﬂoor, Tilak
Marg, Relief Road, AHMEDABAD – 380 001.
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in

BENGALURU                               Karnataka.
Insurance Ombudsman
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman
Jeevan Soudha Building, PID No. 57-27-N-19,
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, JP
Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in

BHOPAL                            Madhya Pradesh
Insurance Ombudsman                   and Chattisgarh.
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman
1st Floor, Jeevan Shikha, 60-B,
Hoshangabad Road, Opp. Gayatri Mandir,
Bhopal – 462 011.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in

BHUBANESHWAR                        Odisha
Insurance Ombudsman
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman
62, Forest Park, Bhubaneswar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in

CHANDIGARH                              Punjab, Haryana
Insurance Ombudsman                        (excluding
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman          Gurugram,
Mr Atul Jerath                               Faridabad,
Jeevan Deep Building SCO 20-27, Ground     Sonepat and
Floor Sector - 17 A, Chandigarh – 160 017.    Bahadurgarh),
Tel.: 0172 - 4646394 / 2706468             Himachal Pradesh,
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in     Union Territories
                                                of Jammu &
                                         Kashmir,Ladakh &
                                           Chandigarh.

CHENNAI                                   Tamil Nadu
Insurance Ombudsman                     Puducherry Town
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman         and Karaikal
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, Anna     (which are part of
Salai, Teynampet, CHENNAI – 600 018.        Puducherry).
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24333678
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in
 INSURANCE OMBUDSMAN

 on the nature of grievance and the ﬁnancial implication, if any.
n and powers is available on the website of the Insurance
 t https://irdai.gov.in, or of the General Insurance Council at
 the IRDAI at http://www.policyholder.gov.in, or from any of Our




   Name of ofﬁce of Insurance               Territorial Area
   Ombudsman                            of Jurisdiction
   DELHI                                        Delhi & following
    Insurance Ombudsman                           Districts of
    Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman         Haryana –
    2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, Asaf Ali   Gurugram,
    Road, New Delhi – 110 002.                  Faridabad,
      Tel.: 011 - 23237539                      Sonepat &
    Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in          Bahadurgarh

   GUWAHATI                             Assam, Meghalaya,
    Insurance Ombudsman                      Manipur, Mizoram,
    Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman          Arunachal
    Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, Nr. Panbazar over    Pradesh, Nagaland
    bridge, S.S. Road,                       and Tripura.
    Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).
      Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
    Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in

   HYDERABAD                           Andhra Pradesh,
    Insurance Ombudsman                      Telangana, Yanam
    Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman         and part of
    6-2-46, 1st ﬂoor, Moin Court, Lane Opp.       Union Territory of
    Saleem Function Palace, A. C. Guards,         Puducherry.
    Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004.
      Tel.: 040 - 23312122
    Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in

   JAIPUR                                     Rajasthan.
    Insurance Ombudsman
    Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman
    Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,
   Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur - 302 005.
      Tel.: 0141- 2740363/2740798
    Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in

   KOCHI                                         Kerala,
    Insurance Ombudsman                    Lakshadweep,
    Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman         Mahe-a part of
    10th Floor, Jeevan Prakash, LIC Building, Opp.  Union Territory of
    to Maharaja’s College Ground, M. G. Road,     Puducherry
    Kochi - 682 011.
      Tel.: 0484 - 2358759
    Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in

   KOLKATA                             West Bengal,
    Insurance Ombudsman                        Sikkim, Andaman
    Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman         and Nicobar
    Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 7th Floor, 4,           Islands.
    C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072.
      Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124341
    Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in
 Name of ofﬁce of Insurance               Territorial Area
 Ombudsman                            of Jurisdiction
 LUCKNOW                                         District of Uttar
 Insurance Ombudsman                      Pradesh: Lalitpur,
 Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman            Jhansi, Mahoba,
 6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, Nawal    Hamirpur, Banda,
 Kishore Road, Hazratganj,                      Chitrakoot,
 Lucknow - 226 001.                         Allahabad,
 Tel.: 0522 - 4002082 / 3500613               Mirzapur,
 Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in       Sonbhabdra,
                                              Fatehpur,
                                             Pratapgarh,
                                               Jaunpur, Varansi,
                                               Gazipur, Jalaun,
                                            Kanpur, Lucknow,
                                         Unnao, Sitapur,
                                            Lakhimpur,
                                              Bahraich,
                                             Barabanki,
                                                Raebareli,
                                                  Sravasti, Gonda,
                                             Faizabad, Amethi,
                                         Kaushambi,
                                            Balrampur, Basti,
                                        Ambedkarnagar,
                                                Sultanpur,
                                            Maharajganj,
                                             Santkabirnagar,
                                        Azamgarh,
                                            Kaushinagar,
                                             Gorkhpur, Deoria,
                                        Mau, Ghazipur,
                                             Chandauli, Ballia,
                                             Sidharathnagar.

 MUMBAI                                 Goa, Mumbai
 Insurance Ombudsman                       Metropolitan
 Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman          Region (excluding
 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, S. V. Road,     Navi Mumbai &
 Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054.            Thane).
 Tel.: 022 - 69038800/27/29/31/32/33
 Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in





The updated details of Insurance Ombudsman are available on
Insurance Council: https://www.gicouncil.in, website of the Com
Company.
   Name of ofﬁce of Insurance               Territorial Area
   Ombudsman                            of Jurisdiction
   NOIDA                                      States of
     Insurance Ombudsman                       Uttaranchal and
    Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman           the following
    Bhagwan Sahai Palace, 4th Floor,               Districts of
    Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15,             Uttar Pradesh:.
      Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P - 201301.     Agra, Aligarh,
      Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253               Bagpat, Bareilly,
     Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in             Bijnor, Budaun,
                                               Bulandshehar,
                                                 Etah,Kannauj,
                                                   Mainpuri,
                                               Mathura, Meerut,
                                           Moradabad,
                                                Muzaffarnagar,
                                                  Oraiyya,
                                                                 Pilibhit, Etawah,
                                               Farrukhabad,
                                                  Firozabad, Gautam
                                        Budh Nagar,
                                              Ghaziabad, Hardoi,
                                               Shahjahanpur,
                                               Hapur, Shamli,
                                            Rampur, Kashganj,
                                             Sambhal,
                                           Amroha, Hathras,
                                              Kanshiramnagar,
                                               Saharanpur.

   PATNA                                      Bihar and
     Insurance Ombudsman                      Jharkhand.
    Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman
    2nd Floor, Lalit Bhawan, Bailey Road,
    Patna - 800 001.
      Tel.: 0612-2547068
     Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in

   PUNE                                     Maharashtra,
     Insurance Ombudsman                    Area of Navi
    Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman         Mumbai and Thane
    Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, C.T.S. No.s.    (excluding Mumbai
    195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,   Metropolitan
    Pune – 411 030.                               Region).
      Tel.: 020-24471175
     Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in

   THANE                                   Navi Mumbai,
     Insurance Ombudsman                   Thane District,
    Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,         Raigad District,
    2nd Floor,Jeevan Chintamani Building,        Palghar District
    Vasantrao Naik Mahamarg, Thane (West )    and wards of
    Thane - 400604                         Mumbai, M/East,
     Email: bimalokpal.thane@cioins.co.in         M/West, N, S and T.



n IRDA website: https://irdai.gov.in. on the website of General
mpany www.icicilombard.com or from any of the ofﬁces of the
